It is because of people like Martie van der Walt, who, at 72, has made over 117 blood donations, that the SANBS is able to consistently deliver life-saving, safe blood to the nation.  So said a statement released by the SANBS, as World Blood Donor Day approaches. Every year South Africa observes this day on June 14, a drive to emphasise the need for a stable supply of healthy, safe blood and blood products. Moreover, this month-long celebration serves the purpose of thanking and encouraging people to commit to regular donations. In January 2021, Mosa Mphore, a donor kidney recipient, entered the last stage of rejection.  “My doctors decided to place me on plasmapheresis to stop my body from rejecting my kidney,” Mphore remembered. Following an initial 10 rounds of plasma transfusions, he is doing well. “It was like a second transplant for me. The plasma helped to keep my kidney alive. I will forever be grateful.” ALSO READ: Suspect (33) arrested for murder in Lydenburg Thousands of people with chronic and life-threatening conditions, who have been given second chances at life, join the SANBS in thanking blood donors this World Blood Donor Day. These invaluable, regular donations have given people like Mphore an opportunity to make more memories with their families. Thandi Mosupye, SANBS’ senior manager for marketing and communication, expressed the organisation’s gratitude. “The best gift you can give anyone is the gift of life. We know that South Africans have huge hearts and we call on them to fully embrace the spirit of unity under this year’s World Blood Donor Day theme, ‘Donating blood is an act of solidarity’.” ALSO READ: SAPS corners and arrest suspects in Brown Street The SANBS applauds its regular donors, who ensure the target of 3 500 units per day is maintained. “This Youth Month, we are appealing to young, healthy South Africans to also take up the cause of donating blood and make it a lifestyle choice,” Mosupye said. Visit www.sanbs.org.za or call 0800 11 90 31 to find out where you can support blood drives throughout June. Connect with the SANBS on Twitter @theSANBS, Facebook @SANBS and Instagram @thesanbs. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram