The process of importing a car can be daunting, but we’re here to help make it as easy as possible for you. We’ll discuss the basics of importing a pre-owned vehicle into South Africa, from what paperwork you’ll need to what restrictions apply. So, whether you’re thinking of buying a car from overseas or just want to know more about the process, read on for all the information you need! When you’re buying a pre-owned car, it’s important to make sure that you know what you’re getting into. The most popular and reliable auctions are Barrett-Jackson, Copart, and Adesa. These auctions have pre-screened the vehicles up for bidding and the VIN number of every vehicle specified, so you can be sure that you’re getting a quality car. Just make sure to use vinnumberlookup.org to do your research on the car you’re interested in before bidding! By decoding a VIN number, you can learn about a vehicle’s history, such as whether it’s been in any accidents or had any major repairs done. If you’re successful in bidding on a car at the auction, you’ll need to pay for it within 24 hours. The preferred method of payment is by wire transfer, as this is the quickest and most secure way to pay. You can also pay by certified check or cashier’s check, but please note that these methods may take longer to process. Once your payment has been processed, the car will be released to you and you can begin making arrangements for shipping. If you’re importing a car from overseas, it’s important to get a pre-shipment inspection (PSI) done on the vehicle. This is an inspection of the vehicle that is conducted by an independent third party before it is shipped to South Africa. The purpose of the pre-shipment inspection is to ensure that the vehicle meets all of the required safety and environmental standards. The first thing to keep in mind when importing a pre-owned vehicle is that there are certain restrictions in place. For instance, you can only import a car that is less than five years old. This age limit is in place to ensure that only newer vehicles are imported into the country, as they tend to be safer and more reliable. Another restriction to be aware of is the maximum value of the car you can import. Currently, this limit is set at R500 000. This means that if you’re looking to import a more expensive vehicle, you’ll need to get special permission from the South African Revenue Service (SARS). When it comes to paperwork, there are a few important documents you’ll need to have in order: Once you have all of the necessary paperwork in order, you’ll need to submit it to the South African Bureau of Standards (SABS). They will then issue you with a Certificate of Compliance, which is required in order to register your imported vehicle. The final step in the process is to pay import duty and VAT. Import duty is levied at a rate of 20% on the value of the vehicle, while VAT is charged at 14% on the value of the vehicle plus import duty. Once you’ve completed all of the steps and paid the required fees, you’ll be able to register your pre-owned vehicle in South Africa! And that’s it – you’re now the proud owner of an imported car. Just remember to keep up with the maintenance and service schedule to keep it running smoothly.