A leopard has been seen in town repeatedly wandering in Crocodile Street during the past few weeks after dark.Corridor Gazette approached Gerrie Camacho, carnivore scientist of the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency (MTPA), and this was his reply: “This is normal behaviour for a dispersing leopard that is most likely busy to seek a home or refuge en route to an area with adequate food and the absence of a territorial male or female. Seeing that the gender couldn’t be confirmed yet, it doesn’t look like a lactating female, who also tends to choose such areas to have cubs. It also reflects typical subadult dispersing male behaviour. ALSO READ: Border chaos out of control “The MTPA is busy to try and safely capture the animal and only then will an assessment be made about its status and a decision taken on the cat’s route to possible relocation. Various options will be possible, but only once the gender, age and condition of this individual has been determined. All evidence indicates that the animal is in perfect health and from the evidence at this stage, it seems like a dispersing young adult leopard.” The public is asked not to confront or to pursue the leopard if seen, but to rather contact Camacho on 082 353 9097 or Ernst Röhm on 083 626 6309. Confrontation of this animal, which might at first seem placid, may lead to injury to either the animal itself or bystanders. Seemingly relaxed behaviour can be misinterpreted by people that it is safe to approach on foot and cause provocation, which may lead to a sudden change to a self-defence mode and aggressive behaviour, and a possibility of an attack. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga police action sees results in several drug smuggling busts Even if the leopard might flee the scene, it will be enraged for a while and can lead to the animal attacking other people or their pets in its flight route. “It must be noted that the leopard would most probably hide in thickets or dense vegetation, including gardens during daytime, and residents should carefully observe their own dog’s behaviour when moving about. Listening to dogs barking around the neighbourhood can also possibly indicate the whereabouts of this leopard, and people should be cautious to be on foot or pursue the animal if noticed.” Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram