Bringing back the glitz, the glam and tons of sass, queens Betty Bangles and Shenay O’Brien had the crowd in stitches with their captivating and charismatic drag show, Tucked & Loaded, on May 25. Held at Urban House on Wednesday evening, the much-anticipated return of the two drag queens saw tickets for their show sell like hot cakes, with several people travelling all the way from Middelburg just to attend.  Dressed to the nines, covered in glittering jewels and sparkling sequins, the duo gave a spectacular performance filled with dancing, singing, dramatic lip-syncing and, of course, oodles of quick wit and cheek. ALSO READ: Lefpa is back home and ready for the fire season Between powerful performances and some flirting with a few audience members, O’Brien and Bangles stepped off the stage to interact  with the crowd, calling out the “bad” hair and outfit choices of some of the attendees. One bold gentleman decided to slap Bangles on the butt, resulting in the queen climbing onto the man’s lap. Songs such as “Die Byeboerwa” and “Vroue” by Carike Keuzenkamp, “Time Warp” from The Rocky Horror Picture Show, “Cabaret”, and Abba’s “Waterloo” were performed to resounding applause from the audience. ALSO READ: Woman recovering from suspected skull fracture following Schoemanskloof farm attack The two queens even held a dancing competition for some of the men from the audience, with the winner crowned “princess” and handed a plastic, golden crown to wear. Following the end of the performance, crowd members queued at the front of the stage for their chance to be photographed with Bangles and O’Brien.  An art exhibition by Skullpt Studio called Pride Blur was also launched at the gallery at Urban House for attendees to view after the show and throughout the week. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram