The deputy minister of international relations and cooperation, Candith Mashego-Dlamini, and members of the diplomatic community, donated much-needed study materials to Prof SS Repinga Secondary School on Friday. During her visit, Mashego-Dlamini donated laptops to six top-achieving learners. She also donated study materials, food parcels, blankets and toiletries to the rest of the Grade 12 learners to aid them during their study camp. The diplomatic community donated computers, which will be used by all the pupils for studying and assignments.  When addressing the matric class, Mashego-Dlamini said her visit to the school with the ambassadors was not only a humanitarian mission, but a way of fostering friendships among nations. She educated the school on the importance of international relations. ALSO READ: White River’s ageing water infrastructure a serious concern “We have links with every other country in the world, not just in Africa; we have 127 offices throughout the world in different countries. We are making friends in other countries, which is the reason the diplomatic community is here: to give back. This friendship is good for South Africans so that when they need to study overseas, it will be easy for them because we already have solid relationships. We are also aware of the challenges that the people of Nkomazi face such as human trafficking, gender-based violence and rape, which is why we are all here with ambassadors other countries to demonstrate international solidarity. ALSO READ: Two missing women found alive near White River “We want to assure you that you are very important and that education will help you to become a better person. All study materials and computers, I believe, will be utilised for educational reasons.” ALSO READ: WATCH: Hazyview Hi-Tech reaction officer ambushed Duduzile Nkala, the school’s principal, said, “I would like to express my profound gratitude on behalf of the school to the deputy minister, ambassadors, tribal authority, municipality, and education department for their efforts. I feel that these presents and educational tools will aid in our teaching and learning, allowing us to address the socio-economic challenges in Nkomazi. This visit was noteworthy and will be treasured.” Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram