The Lions Club inducted their new president this past weekend. The well-known local, Dave Bremner, became the new president for the second time in 30 years. Dressed to the nines, Lions Club members and their guests entered the beautifully decorated centre at about 18:30 and were treated to a sumptuous three-course meal from Zest during the evening on Saturday June 18. The night started off with Lion member Gery van Gelder, the master of ceremonies, and a few other speakers before outgoing Lion president Mike Graham gave his valedictory speech. ALSO READ: Tubatse ringball stars to play in Pretoria “Nelspruit Lions Club has always attempted to involve itself in as many of the major recognised activities of Lionism as possible from the start of its journey in 1970, and this year has been no different,” said Graham in his speech. He gave feedback on some of the projects that had been undertaken by the club during his presidency, and then presented several awards to some of the members before Bremner was inducted. These included the Fellowship Award, which went to Van Gelder, the Verna Boswell Lions Lady of the Year Award went to Carol Nicholson, and the Lions Project of the Year Award went to the Lion Ladies. Graham presented the President’s Award to Koos Schoonraad in his absence, and finally, the Lion of the Year Award went to Tony Clemens. Bremner was then inducted to a huge round of applause and cheers by his fellow Lions. Bremner has been a member of the Nelspruit Lions for 37 years and was last president from 1990 to 1991. “It is a privilege to be president for a second term. We need to increase our membership and make the public more aware of what we as Lions do, and grow our existing projects to serve our community,” he said. He said the ongoing projects are as follows: food parcels to Childline South Africa, food deliveries to child-headed homes in Daantjie/ Pienaar, entertainment of senior citizens and running stalls at the Steiltes Night Market and Sonpark Market. Bremner said the Lions Ladies also make beanies and scarves for the underprivileged and premature babies, as well as provide for eye screenings at eye care clinics. “There are many other projects that we get involved in as and when needed,” said Bremner.