Many efforts have been made by the government to curb illegal movements of people, goods and illicit goods between neighbouring countries such as Mozambique and the Kingdom of eSwatini. So said the MEC for community safety, security and liaison, Vusi Shongwe, during his visit to the Lebombo borderline last Wednesday.  He was accompanied by senior managers of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF).  The activity was also meant to familiarise Shongwe with some of the challenges at the borderline. He viewed various points along the border and also did a walkabout at some of the illegal crossing points.  “Other initiatives to combat transnational crimes have borne fruits, as many people have been arrested for offences that include being in possession of drugs and suspected stolen goods, which include vehicles and counterfeit goods, among others,” said Shongwe when he addressed the media. ALSO READ: Limpopo SAPS arrest 889 for criminal activities He said illegal immigrants are also arrested regularly and deported to their home countries.  “There is heightened cooperation among stake-holders and government departments working at the border gates across the province, and that is why an impact is being made,” Shongwe continued. ALSO READ: WATCH: Hazyview Hi-Tech reaction officer ambushed He said he has, however, noted challenges that range from a lack of proper infrastructure to illegal movements of people,  and stolen goods such as illicit drugs.  Shongwe also noted the difficult working conditions under which the SANDF were working and bemoaned the existence of so-called runners who are allegedly facilitating the illegal movement of people into the country.  He was also briefed that theft and hijacking of light delivery vehicles remain a challenge in the area. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram