The deputy minister of international relations, Candith Mashego-Dlamini, addressed the community of Nkomazi on issues affecting them, such as gender-based violence (GBV), femicide, drugs and alcohol abuse which continue to pose threats to all South Africans’ health, safety, and well-being. The event was held last Friday.  In her address Mashego-Dlamini highlighted that Nkomazi as a middle town between two borders, has a high incidences of GBV and taverns are hotspots of many crimes, such as rape and femicide. She said Nkomazi is a region that is densely populated because many people move here because of its central location.  “According to statistics, this town is plagued by GBV, rape, and femicide, all of which are thorns in the community’s flesh. Molestation appears to be the norm, and these criminals find it simple to murder and kidnap young girls and women. There are certain men in Nkomazi who seem to be human, but are actually animals on the inside. ALSO READ: WATCH: Hazyview Hi-Tech reaction officer ambushed When cases are opened, our police work hard to apprehend the criminals, but after a few days, they are released because the people withdraw the cases.  “We are here today to urge the community to refrain from taking bribes to withdraw cases, because you obstruct justice from taking its course. We suggest that bottle store and bar owners keep an eye on their establishments to ensure that such incidents and misuse do not occur,” said Mashigo-Dlamini. At the event a resident, Thabiso Shongwe, said if the local police stopped taking bribes then justice would prevail.  “If our cops and judges could avoid taking bribes or favouring the privileged, our justice system will be strong, and culprits will remain jailed, setting a powerful message to all other criminals,” said Shongwe. ALSO READ: White River’s ageing water infrastructure a serious concern Inkhosi Sandile Ngomane said, “As men we must contribute to the battle against GBV and advocate for the protection of women. This issue of GBV does not harm women only, it affects the entire community. We can win this war if all women can report domestic violence to the police.” Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram