The Biker Boot Run in aid of Hugo Greyling raised over R9 000 at the Bush Baby Pub & Grill on Saturday June 18. Lowvelder reported last week that Greyling had suffered a mild stroke on May 10, landing him in hospital for a few days. However, just 18 days later, he was in a motorbike accident and back in hospital. Greyling sustained multiple serious injuries during the accident, resulting in him needing several surgeries and operations, including a hip replacement.
Due to financial difficulties following the pandemic, Greyling had to cancel his medical aid, leaving the family with a hefty hospital bill. A friend of Greyling and one of the organisers of the Biker Boot Run, Janine Potgieter, said he is currently in Rob Ferreira Hospital and that they need to raise
R500 000 to move him to a private hospital and have the operations done as soon as possible. ALSO READ: Carling Currie Cup final 2022: Griquas and Pumas name teams for clash in Kimberley “We have managed to raise R140 000 among ourselves, but still need a considerable amount,” she said. The Biker Boot Run on Saturday, however, was deemed a success, with over R9 000 raised for Greyling. The charity event cost R150 per person, which included a spit braai, pap, sheba and salads, and hosted fun activities such as beer pong, a tyre throw and tug of war. Another organiser of the event and well-known local, Mel Davids, said the charity event was a huge success. ALSO READ: Mbombela kry nuwe traumasentrum “There were around 150 people who came out to support Hugo and his family, and we managed to raise just over R9 000 for the day,” said Davids. She said supporters of the event were even able to win some prizes, including SPAR vouchers, petrol vouchers, and meal vouchers from Bazaruto and Salvador, Kaapsehoop. The event also had live entertainment for the day, featuring Davids herself as well as Ryan Grunow with The Acoustics. Davids also thanked Amber-Leigh Hayes, owner of Bush Baby Pub & Grill, for the initiative and effort. “She made all of this possible,” said Davids.