The South African National Taxi Council (Santaco) distanced itself from the planning of a national shutdown on Friday June 10.The EFF and DA are threatening to shut down all nine province to force the National Treasury and Department of Minerals and Energy to lower petrol prices. The national spokesperson for Santaco, Thabiso Molelekwa, said there are no plans for a national shutdown as they are in talks with government to come up with solution following the petrol price increases. ALSO READ: Protesters demand jobs at Two Rivers “Santaco has never lobbied any organisation for a national shutdown, and not even planned one. We still, however, hold the strongest view that there’s an urgent intervention needed, and this despite looming taxi fare increases. We are still negotiating so that we can be exempted of some of the taxes on the petrol price. Once we have exhausted all channels that we can use for government, then we can take action,” he said. An EFF statement said the government has demonstrated they are not interested in resolving the petrol hike and ignored the outcry of small businesses, taxi operators and workers to intervene. ALSO READ: Suspect (33) arrested for murder in Lydenburg “We are in consultation with other stakeholders to consider a national shutdown until the petrol price is reduced. National Treasury and the Department of Minerals and Energy must come up with immediate measures to lower the fuel prices,” read the statement. The DA said it would protest in the seven provinces against fuel price increases, and they intend to fight until these are reduced. 95 unleaded costs R24.17 a litre, 93 unleaded R23.94 a litre, diesel inland is R23.09 a litre and low-sulphur R23.23 a litre. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram