Juraj Dolezal:  Lowveld Group – Micro Dealer Group of the Year. To be considered for the award, the group is required to have a minimum of two dealerships contributing a minimum of 2% towards the overall Volkswagen dealer sales result. “I believe that perseverance in the face of adversity breeds success, and we are setting the benchmark. Although we have won this award before in 2017, the combination of the 2022 awards is the pinnacle. Our communities and staff really are the gateway to these awards – we appreciate you!” Lemmy Dolezal:  Dealer principal, Alan Hudson Motors – Volkswagen Dealer of the Year and Club of Excellence Membership. The Dealer of the Year Award is given to the dealership that delivers the best and most consistent overall results across the business. The best performing dealerships are invited into Volkswagen’s Club of Excellence, where the overall best performer is awarded with Dealer of the Year Status. “Achieving the OEM standards and targets within a tough business environment – and Covid-19 did not help – dictated consolidation and innovation. This industry has become extremely focused over the past couple of years. Every single element within the business has its own incentive-driven sales requirements. Consistency is critical, and to win these awards across our group is just phenomenal. Our staff and managers are people who excel at solving problems when it occurs, and our intense customer focus adds value beyond the price of our products. The manner in which observe and respond to the nuances – negative and positive – within our business, gives us the edge and now also the VW awards.” Dirk van der Merwe:  Dealer principal, Palm Motors – Club of Excellence Membership “This is our fourth Club of Excellence Membership Award in category B in five years. Finding and exploring the balance between chasing OEM targets and also creating delight (the X-factor) within customer expectations, requires firm boundaries and unwavering integrity. William James said, ‘It is the attitude at the beginning of a difficult task, which more than anything else will affect the outcome.’ The community and social involvement of our staff and managers within our communities are part of our fabric, as is our commitment to service beyond the norm.” Anru Myburgh:  Dealer principal, Volkswagen Highlands – Club of Excellence Membership “I have been in the industry for 11 years , nine with the group – and it has been an utterly rewarding experience. This award represents the pinnacle of facing and resolving many challenges over the past number of years. The diversity within the management team, the broad spectrum of services and quality products that we offer and the commitment of every member of staff is what makes us remarkable and successful. Thank you to our customers and my team at VW Highlands.” Lerika van der Vyver:  Alan Hudson Motors – Golden Circle Group Parts Manager Award, awarded to parts departments that have excelled in the field and met the required performance criteria. Alan Hudson Motors
6 Naaldekoker Crescent, Riverside, Nelspruit
Tel: 013-756-4444 | www.alanhudson.co.za
Email: info@alanhudson.co.za Volkswagen Highlands
34 Kerk Street, Lydenburg
Tel: 013-235-1900 | www.vwhighlands.co.za
Email: info@vwhighlands.co.za Palm Motors
10B Cnr. Kiepersol & Hazyview Road, White River
Tel: 013-750-8300 | www.palmmotors.co.za
Email: info@palmmotors.co.za 