These are just a few of the critical issues facing the town and the Lebombo Border Post.  “Nobody seems to be able to control the situation and those who can, don’t do anything,” an irate trucker said this week. Traffic jams and the N4 being gridlocked, mostly by trucks, are a daily occurrence.  This is not only causing major headaches for farmers and residents who cannot cross the N4, but also for tourists who travel to Mozambique.  “During the past weeks, on numerous occasions, truck drivers who are stuck in the endless queue of trucks trying to cross into Mozambique, were attacked by gangs. ALSO READ: Three fluffy little surprise visitors take a ride to Skukuza in car’s engine “The gangs are getting so brazen that they sometimes even strike in broad daylight,” said Dion Gregory, cross-border coordinator for Unitrans Africa. “We believe most of these criminals use Ressano Garcia, a village a few hundred metres across the border in Mozambique, as their ‘base camp’.”  According to a Komatipoort resident, this situation has now escalated to such an extent that the truckers are arming themselves with weapons such as pistols and revolvers. “They are now becoming a law unto themselves. It is an extremely dangerous situation and we don’t support this at all. “But what must they do? Most of them are even taking their weapons through the border post, although it is totally illegal,” said the resident. The situation worsens at night after the traffic officials go off duty at 18:00. Then there is no patrolling or crime prevention on the road.  One of the main causes of the traffic congestion is the bottleneck at the border post.  “There are only two lanes available for commercial traffic. And if two trucks are parked next to each other, the other trucks pile up.  “Earlier this year, a solution was offered to both the Mozambican and South African authorities, that the private sector will pay for the gates to be widened so three lanes will be available. “Within an hour we had approval from the Mozambican government. We are, however, still waiting for the powers to be in the republic to respond.  “R54 000 and four days of work is all it is going to take to alleviate the pressure,” said Gregory. His sentiment was echoed by Jan Engelbrecht, convener of the Komatipoort Business Chamber. ALSO READ: Mbombela reaction officer stops house fire from spreading “Killings, gunshots and chaos at the border post are met with silence. The failure of government to implement appropriate and radical measures at the Lebombo Border Post may ultimately contribute to more deaths, property destruction and violence,” Engelbrecht said.  In an urgent letter addressed to numerous government and law enforcement authorities, Engelbrecht wrote: “It has not happened in the blink of an eye. Over the past 18 months the situation worsened. At night, the gridlocking of the N4 from the border post beyond the town entrances is creating a fertile ground for crime. “For weeks now, dangerous gangs are operational here. Vehicles are brought to a standstill by means of metal spikes, or by the traffic congestion, and a gang of approximately 25 hardened criminals attack and rob the stranded people.  “There are numerous incidents in which people were attacked with slash knifes. The trucks and taxis are like sitting ducks and present easy prey.” Engelbrecht said information indicates that these criminals are mostly nomadic, intelligent and are not confined to the N4. Richard Williams, also a member of the chamber, said the most dangerous crime hotspot currently is the stretch of road from the BP garage up to the border post.  “These attackers commit a crime and disappear into the bushes. Three hundred metres further on they cross back into Mozambique without a finger being lifted against them. ALSO READ: Plans are afoot for greening Mpumalanga, says agri MEC Busi Shiba “The residents of our once-quiet and one-horse town are living in fear,” said Williams.  “Ressano Garcia, once a small town, is now a sprawling township about seven times the size of Komatipoort.  We believe this is due to the town living off the loot brought into the town by the gangs.  “Desperate calls to the law enforcement authorities have, so far, fallen on deaf ears.” Recently Vusi Shongwe, the MEC for safety and security, was flown in by a military helicopter for an inspection of the border post.  Shongwe said he believed “all is under control” at the border post. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram