Mpumalanga biggest region, Ehlanzeni, endorsed Ronald Lamola to contest for the organisation’s deputy presidency position in December. This position is currently occupied by David Mabuza, the former provincial chairperson.  Officially pronouncing their stance on the national leadership race, the region, through its newly elected chairperson, Jacky Macie, commanded Lamola to make himself available and raise his hand when his name is called to stand second in command of this gigantic political organisation currently marred by infightings and character assassinations, which in turn kills public trust. ALSO READ: WATCH: Hazyview Hi-Tech reaction officer ambushed “When the time is right and when your name is called, you must stand up and respond to the call. It a must. You must respond,” said Macie when addressing hundreds of party members gathered at the Mzinti Holiness Church on Sunday.  Macie said since the country was becoming more youthful by the day, a need arose to have a blend of young leaders at the fore, a sentiment also shared by the ANC Youth League’s provincial secretary hopeful, Zwelo Masilela. Just like Macie, Masilela said the youth league stood by Lamola and would pull all strings to ensure he emerged as the party’s number two.  This region also threw its weight behind the current party president, Cyril Ramaphosa, who has shown an ambition of running for a second term at the helm of the ANC. ALSO READ: Limpopo SAPS arrest 889 for criminal activities “And on your way back home, please greet President Ramaphosa and tell him we are here, on his side, just like we are on your side,” added Macie.  He said they are in a process of renewal and that the party does not need elements that seek to tarnish the organisation’s image going forward. “We are no longer going to support comrades just because they are from this region, and once they are there, they come back and divide us. We are clear on that stance. This is the reason why we are in a process of renewal and fixing the organisation. We must isolate all those who are dividing us,” said Macie. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram