The International Arts Talent Showcase (IATS) visited Mpumalanga on Saturday to give models, singers, dancers and actors the opportunity of a lifetime. The opportunity? To showcase their talent in front of 10 American agents at the 12th annual IATS at Silverstar Casino on October 1. Impress here, and you unlock more doors on the international stage. The producer of the IATS, Elsubie Verlinden, said, “The level of dedication and passion showcased during the performances on Saturday was powerful. “The singers and dancers stood out for me, with a level of expertise, hours of training and dedication showcased towards perfecting their craft. Their storytelling ability was outstanding and memorable from a talent scout perspective.” ALSO READ: Huge public outcry over cost of Mbombela street name changes Verlinden has established herself in this industry, and worked her way up from the very bottom to where she is today. Now, she wants to give others the same opportunities for which she worked so hard. Do not think this will come easy, though. She did not pull any punches during her workshop that started off the day. She explained to the attendees how much hard work went into making something of oneself in the industry and warned them that they are entering a space where one gets a “no” a lot more than one gets a “yes”. Dedication and perseverance are key. Her résumé alone is enough to inspire a young talent. She is the chairperson and CEO of 33 and Me Talent Agency, a premiere agent for the American Musical and Dramatic Academy and the director and executive producer of Dream Factory TV Show. This show will start airing on June 16 on DStv channel 251. Attendees had the opportunity to perform their talent for Verlinden following the workshop, and what followed was an array of young singers, dancers, actors and models all aiming to impress. In a nutshell, she said Mpumalanga has a lot of raw, undiscovered talent, and this is where opportunity meets talent. ALSO READ: Lefpa is back home and ready for the fire season “The province has now been placed on the map. I am excited for future talent identification auditions to ensure we can develop and nurture the talent here to secure maximum exposure moving forward.”