Some homes in Kingsview Extensions 1 and 2 were without water from May 27 to 30 due to a broken water valve control in William Lynn Street. The White River Ratepayers & Residents Association (WRRRA) blames the City of Mbombela (CoM) for not replacing the old infrastructure due to poor maintenance. The townsfolk participated in the recent integrated development planning (IDP) and expect the CoM to meet their demands. The vice chairperson of WRRRA, Pierre du Preez, told Lowvelder that the residents regularly experience water cuts due to burst pipes and low water reticulation. “The most recent incident occurred in William Lynn Street and is the direct result of old infrastructure and poor maintenance. ALSO READ: City of Mbombela slow to act on illegal dumping in White River “Most of the infrastructure in White River is dilapidated and old and needs to be replaced. Recently, the whole town was without water for five days. This is proof that it is in desperate need of new water infrastructure. Similar problems such as this broken water valve, pipes bursting and low water reticulation pressure have become the norm in our town,” he said.  Du Preez said a full and comprehensive IDP was prepared and presented to municipality, outlining every important issue the town faces. The correct procedures and protocols were followed. “The necessity of upgrading the failing water systems, sewer networks and electricity, to name few, are properly documented in the budget request. We want Mbombela to work according to our demands in this IDP, anything less will see disaster,” he said. Meanwhile, Ward 30’s councillor, Rowan Torr, said the problem had been temporarily fixed, but they are urging the CoM to upgrade the entire ageing system as it will soon burst again. “In White River, the water infrastructure is 100 years old and it was built with asbestos. With the current demand, it is not coping. The system needs a serious intervention because soon people will not have water at all,” he said. ALSO READ: Tensions between motorists escalate at the Steelbridge The municipality’s spokesperson, Joseph Ngala, said they are addressing the matter as their team is currently on the ground fixing the problem. Water has been restored to most of the affected houses. “We are aware that the infrastructure is ageing. The CoM will address the matter in due course. We are pleading with the community to bear with us,” he said.  Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram