In support of International Albinism Day on June 13, Graskop-based artist Manie Connoway took to canvas and paper to portray Stanford Kgalane, a local Mbombela man with albinism. The poem, accompanying the artwork, reads as follows:  Kgalane was born on June 25, 1981 in the village of Leroro-Mathibidi, close to Graskop.  “I was born with albinism. I am blessed with good health and live an active life as a case manager and provincial vice chairperson of the Health and Other Trade Union of South Africa,” said Kgalane. ALSO READ: Family gets closure 15 years after cyclist was murdered “I am fortunate to not have to endure common extreme conditions such as hyper sun sensitivity and poor eyesight. I am quite aware of societal ignorance and prejudice, but consider myself fortunate to not have fallen victim to it. “I am grateful to have come this far. It pains me when I hear and see many people living with albinism still endure adversity in all its excruciating facets.”  He said through this painting by Connoway of him embracing a leopard, he wishes to bring a message of encouragement to everybody living with albinism in South Africa, Africa and the world at large. ALSO READ: House fire on R40 claims grandfather’s life “But, lastly, also a short message to humanity in general: Let the leopard and the butterfly be our role models.”  He said the leopard in this scenario is the epitome of strength, agility, authenticity and rare beauty, and explained each aspect in more detail, bringing it back to albinism in general as well as his own life.
The butterfly, in turn, symbolises spiritual rebirth, transformation, change, hope, and life. “My wish is that whenever we see a butterfly, we will reminisce about the shortness of life; that we should ceaselessly strive for a life of spiritual transformation where all of humanity, in fact, all of creation, is worthy and holy. Let us become brave spiritual soldiers and surrender to the death of our prejudices and intolerance.” Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram