The EFF has taken a swipe at the state for treating the three murder suspects in the kidnapping and murder of Hillary Gardee with kid gloves.  This is after the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court had ruled that these suspects, Sipho Mkhatshwa, Philemon Lukhele and Albert Gama, were to be afforded treatment after they had claimed they were assaulted by the police when they were arrested. The trio appeared in court last Thursday with new legal representation. They were remanded in custody until July 22 for further investigation and pending forensic results.  Speaking after the court proceedings, the EFF’s deputy secretary general, Poppy Moilola, lashed out at the state for moving at a snail’s pace and treating the accused gently.  Moilola further argued that the continued postponements showed how the justice system was failing the Gardee family and all other victims of gender-based violence in the country.  “It seems like our justice system favours killers and rapists more than the victims, and not taking into consideration how the families of victims feel,” she said. ALSO READ: IN PHOTOS: Pumas fans champion their heroes Before the court proceedings that were delayed, Mailola vented her anger and chided the state for not taking the case seriously.  She led scores of EFF members gathered outside the court in support of the Gardee family, right to the doorway of the court where they threatened to protest until sunset. Soon after this, the case resumed. The Mpumalanga EFF leader, Collen Sedibe, echoed Moilola’s sentiments, and argued that the suspects should not be granted bail.  Sedibe further acknowledged the role played by the media in thoroughly covering the case and also the EFF supporters and the community at large for supporting the Gardee family. ALSO READ: DA rejects TCLMs budget “I want to reaffirm our stance as the EFF that we will continue to support every victim of gender-based violence. We are not here just because the case involves one of our own, but because we are unbending when it comes to these issues,” said Sedibe. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram