The public outcry against president, Cyril Ramaphosa, comes amid revelations alleging that he had covered up a robbery had allegedly happened at his Phala Phala farm.  The incident in question is said to have taken place in 2020 and the statesman allegedly lost money in foreign currency, worth R60m. Ramaphosa told a Limpopo provincial conference he had never done anything wrong, including stealing taxpayers’ money.  First to call for his removal from office were the Red Berets, the EFF, through its commander-in-chief Julius Malema. Malema was followed by the ActionSA party leader, Herman Mashaba, who took a jab at Ramaphosa, saying that he could not trust the country’s police.  This past Monday, the Mpumalanga ANC secretary, Muzi Chirwa, said the province was satisfied with Ramaphosa’s response surrounding the matter in question. ALSO READ: DA rejects TCLMs budget Chirwa was reacting to questions posed by the media during a press briefing held at the party headquarters, January Che Masilela, in Mbombela.  Just before all these matters hounding Ramaphosa, the former Ehlanzeni ANC regional chairperson, Michael Ngrayi Ngwenya, claimed that Mabuza would become the country’s president. Ngwenya made these remarks during a community meeting in Nkomazi about three weeks ago.  Mabuza, who has not made much public appearances lately, told Parliament last week that calls for Ramaphosa to step down were premature.  Mabuza actually said that there was no need to jump the gun until law enforcement agencies had finished their investigation into the matter. ALSO READ: Lions Club and Greek Kouzina donates to local safe haven During his interaction with the military veterans in Mbombela last week, Mabuza was careful not to bring up the Ramaphosa issue or his replacement, should he be criminally charged and asked to step aside.  The ANC is scheduled to host its 55th national conference some time in December, when the party is expected to elect new leadership.  Ramaphosa is expected to stand for another term in office while Mabuza has been mum on his plans. The party’s biggest region in Mpumalanga, Ehlanzeni, had hinted its support for Ramaphosa and did not support Mabuza for another term in office as deputy. The region instead endorsed former youth league deputy president and current national executive member, Ronald Lamola. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram