SEKHUKHUNE – The Limpopo police commissioner, Lt Gen Thembi Hadebe, has established a high-level team of
investigators to work relentlessly to trace down ruthless criminals in the area. These suspects were involved in separate cases of murder, attempted murder, business robbery, kidnapping and hijacking. The crimes took place in Jane Furse and Nebo policing areas between June 10 and 11. During an incident that occurred on Friday June 10, a group of heavily armed suspects stormed the Caltex filling station in Jane Furse and robbed an undisclosed amount of cash, cigarettes and cellphones. “The suspects then hijacked a well-known medical doctor and his Ford Ranger when he was about to fill up at the same filling station and drove off with him in his car.
“The suspects proceeded to Mathapisa Village in the Nebo policing area and GaMoretsele Village, where they robbed two liquor outlets of their alcohol and cash, using the hijacked vehicle to load the robbed items.
“The suspects then abandoned the doctor with the vehicle in Ga-Masemola Village without harming him, after offloading the robbed items. They loaded these into their vehicle and fled,” said the Limpopo SAPS’s spokesperson, Brig Motlafelo Mojapelo. In another separate incident, two male victims were found hacked with a sharp object in Mamone, Mokwena Meetse Section, by unknown suspects. The police found a Toyota Hilux doublecab bakkie on the scene of crime, and the two victims were declared dead upon arrival of the emergency medical services. Three other victims were discovered in the same area on the same day at about 10:00, lying in some bushes with serious injuries. Preliminary investigations revealed that the victims were robbed of their vehicle after giving three men on their way from a local tavern a lift. The suspects drove to nearby bushes where they severely assaulted the victims, and left them at the scene with their vehicle. The three victims were admitted to Jane Furse Hospital after one of them managed to seek help from the community. Two of them later succumbed to their injuries. “The ruthless criminals must be hunted down and brought to book. We are pleading with the public to provide
valuable information that will lead to the apprehension of these suspects,” said Hadebe. Anyone with information should contact the investigating officers, Det Sgt Harry Katedi Mashitisho on 082 239 3402 or WO Det Enoch Mashilo on 072 633 8877, or the Crime Stop number, 08600 10111, visit the nearest police station or use the My SAPS app. Police investigations continue