SEKHUKHUNE – The Sekhukhune District Municipality’s (SDM) executive mayor, Julia Lata Mathebe,  recently tabled the 2022/23 IDP/Budget at Klopper. She said more than a billion rands will be used to improve the SDM. Mathebe promised acceleration of services during the council meeting attended by local communities, magoshi and local mayors. This was Mathebe’s first budget speech since she was appointed mayor in February. “The IDP/budget is the most important economic policy and planning document for the people of our district. Great effort was made to ensure that this IDP/Budget reflects the wishes and aspirations of the people of Sekhukhune,” revealed Mathebe. “We are pleased to announce that, through widespread consultations, using various mediums such as community radio, social media and contact meetings, the people of our district actively participated in the IDP/budget process.” She highlighted that during the consultation process, the SDM solicited the views of various stakeholders and ratepayers, including traditional leaders, businesses and community members. Concerning youth development, local economy and boosting young entrepreneurs, Mathebe seemed to have placed her trust in the the Fetakgomo Tubatse SEZ (special economic zone). “We have kept our commitment to provide support to SMMEs and cooperatives in our district. After we had called on eligible applicants to apply for the Inaugural SMMEs and Cooperatives Development Fund last month, we received 105 applications and adjudication will soon commence.” She further said they have partnered with Sekhukhune TVET College Centre for Entrepreneurship Rapid Incubator to provide financial and non-financial support to emerging entrepreneurs in the SDM. “We have invested R2m in this empowerment programme and we will certainly continue with it in the next financial year.”
She added, “We have also reactivated the Fetakgomo Tubatse SEZ political steering committee which comprises all mayors in our district, municipal managers and senior government officials, and is chaired by the executive mayor.” Mathebe said they are ready to relocate the district municipal offices to Jane Furse. She said a community resolution on land allocation was obtained from the Pedi Mamone Tribal Authority in February and soon they will commence with the relocation. She indicated that she is committed to doing an audit of all bulk water schemes and projects and compiling a list of delayed projects. “After the longstanding delays on the Moutse Bulk Water Scheme, we are beginning to make progress. Many of the projects are either completed or near completion. The upgrading of the Groblersdal Water Treatment Works
and Pump Station is at 90%, and it awaits testing.” She added, “We further want to indicate that budget has been set aside to complete some of the stagnant or incomplete projects such as Zaaiplaas village reticulation, Maphopha reservoir, Nkadimeng phase five to 10, Ga Mashabela water reticulation, Nkadimeng Ext 2, and Olifantspoort South Regional Water Supply phase six.”
She said the total revenue budget is R1.7b, and of this, R1.23b is total operating revenue. “The total capital expenditure is R489m. Of the total capital revenue, R469m is from capital grants, while R20m is from the SDM’s own revenue sources. While we acknowledge that our challenges regarding water and sanitation services are massive, one thing we must agree on is that time for talking, without action, is over,” she said.