While it is difficult to put a number on the pangolin population, this animal is undeniably the most poached mammal in the world.  These were the words of Nicci Wright, a wildlife rehab specialist, co-chair of the African Pangolin Working Group and the director of Johannesburg Wildlife Veterinary Hospital. Lowvelder discussed an incident with Wright in which a pangolin was found in the White River area on June 1.  The Lowveld branch of the Wildlife and Environment Society of South Africa was alerted to the animal’s presence, after which they contacted the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency (MTPA) to collect the animal, which had died in the meantime. ALSO READ: DA protest high fuel prices in Burgersfort Chris Hobkirk of the MTPA said they believe the animal was potentially meant for the illegal trade, making its way here via a vehicle and then escaping into the White River area.   Wright said it does not happen often, but these animals do sometimes escape and are found in places they do not belong. By that time, they could have been in the trade for a week or two and are very seldom in a healthy condition. Hobkirk said, “There was almost nothing in its stomach, so it probably died of starvation, because it was running around in a place that it is not supposed to be, and it was extremely dehydrated.  “They are very sensitive when it comes to that. They dehydrate very quickly and if they do not get the right nutrition, they do not do well at all.” ALSO READ: IN PHOTOS: Pumas fans champion their heroes About a month before this pangolin was found, Wright said another had made it to their doorstep in Johannesburg, also from the Lowveld.  She said that if a person finds a pangolin, they should call the police or the nearest wildlife conservation authority out to the scene. It is illegal to transport a pangolin in your car to a vet or conservation centre. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram