A lucky few Lowveld talents have the opportunity of a lifetime coming up in July – the IMTA 2022 New York. Nqobile Mtshali is one of them. This big city convention, hosted by the IMTA (International Modeling and Talent Association), is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for hopeful young models, actors, singers and dancers to show international scouts (more than 300 of them) what they have to offer. It will consist of 10 days of competitions across these various sections. Naturally, this comes at a cost. Should you wish to get involved in funding this amazing journey for these talented locals, contact Ilze van der Merwe of Ramps-to-Runway Nelspruit at nelspruit@ramps-to-runway.com or on 082 920 2031.  Nqobile (15) is an aspiring model and actor with a dream to positively influence her world through fashion and entertainment.When she sets foot in New York, the IMTA Convention will give her the opportunity to showcase her modelling and acting. “Going to New York will not only afford me the opportunity to showcase my talent and network with various major fashion modelling and acting agencies, but also grant me an opportunity to obtain international education. ALSO READ: Curro Nelspruit’s Sycamore Theatre now open “This will not only enhance my modelling and acting skills, but actually help me in the long term to make a positive contribution to my world.” In preparation for New York, she has participated in all the activities required, including creating personal profiles, mood boards and attending the January boot camp in Johannesburg. “During the boot camp, I participated in acting and fashion modelling training.”  The two sections she plans on participating in have always been what she is passionate about. “These are the type of activities that can contribute positively to society through inspiring the younger generation and my fellow teenagers to challenge their creativity and scriptwriting abilities.” In her free time she enjoys running, listening to music and watching fashion week shows, which educate her more about the conduct of models on the runway. “I also enjoy watching comedy and family movies from which I get to learn more about acting.” ALSO READ: Upgrades to Dr Enos Mabuza Drive on track