A lucky few Lowveld talents have the opportunity of a lifetime coming up in July – the IMTA 2022 New York. Karli Ackerman is one of them. This big city convention, hosted by the IMTA (International Modeling and Talent Association), is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for hopeful young models, actors, singers and dancers to show international scouts (more than 300 of them) what they have to offer. It will consist of 10 days of competitions across these various sections. Naturally, this comes at a cost. Should you wish to get involved in funding this amazing journey for these talented locals, contact Ilze van der Merwe of Ramps-to-Runway Nelspruit at nelspruit@ramps-to-runway.com or on 082 920 2031.  Even though Karli’s (13) main talent is modelling, she will be trying her hand at acting as well when she gets to New York. Her idea with this bold step is to broaden her skills and horizons. By making this trip overseas, Karli hopes to be signed by big brands. “But more important than that, I want to learn from those who have advanced further than I have. I also want to grow and have fun.” ALSO READ: Nqobile has her sights set on New York, help her get there Additionally, she hopes to represent her hometown, Hazyview, on the world stage. “Just imagine a young girl who moved from Johannesburg to Hazyview, and that is where she got her big break.”Karli said this year has brought a lot of changes in her life. “I am in Grade Eight, which means high school as well as boarding school in Limpopo. The high school I chose does things a little differently, as we mostly do online classes.  All the changes and challenges took a lot of time to get used to, so my mother and stepfather have stepped in and have been driving my fundraising where I fell short. “We are also in the process of arranging a golf day with awesome prizes at the end of April. Lastly, I’m assisting my mum with promoting and advertising her distributor business as all proceeds will go towards my trip to New York. “I was introduced to modelling at the age of four and fell in love with it. “It’s something I enjoy and it makes me feel powerful, fierce and in control. It also gives me a platform to use my voice for issues dear to my heart.” In her free time, Karli enjoys painting, reading and spending time with her favourite people on earth: her friends and family. ALSO READ: Help Wandisa to reach New York