The attack on police officers in Mpumalanga continues unabated. In less than a week, more than five police officers were attacked, resulting in one’s death. In a recent incident that occurred on March 25 at KaBokweni, Enock Themba Nsimba, an officer who had just been promoted to a sergeant, lost his life during a shoot-out with criminals. Nsimba, with two members of the Nelspruit Crime Intelligence Unit and four members of KaBokweni Vispol, reacted to information regarding 10 suspects who were gathered at Gutswa Guest House and were allegedly planning to commit a cash-in-transit heist at KaBokweni Complex. ALSO READ: Residents want urgent intervention at town library On the police’s arrival at the guest house, the suspects started shooting at them. The SAPS retaliated. In the shoot-out, Nsimba was shot in the stomach and passed away on the way to hospital. Six suspects were arrested. They appeared in the KaBokweni Magistrate’s Court on March 29. Their case was postponed to April 6. Nsimba joined the police force in 2010 as a constable at KaBokweni Police Station. In 2012 he was transferred to White River’s K9 Unit. In January 2014, he returned to KaBokweni Police Station at the visible policing section, and in February he was promoted to the rank of sergeant. In the very same week, on March 23, two Nelspruit police officers were robbed and assaulted of their service pistols near i’langa Mall, which resulted in two police officers being hospitalised. They are both recovering. Two suspects were arrested on April 5 in Msholozi, and one suspect was shot in the process. They appeared in court on March 29. A third incident happened on March 26 in Bushbuckridge, where a police officer was attacked and robbed of his firearm. Meanwhile, on March 28, more than eight officers who were on patrol were involved in a shoot-out with armed criminals in Calcutta Village. The suspects appeared in the Mkhuhlu Magistrate’s Court. ALSO READ: Bahati Centre, neighbours’ premises flooded in storm The case was postponed to April 6.  A provincial police spokesperson, Brig Selvy Mohlala, said the frequent attacks on police officers are worrying, especially when one of them loses their lives. “Our police officers are trained to defend themselves, but sometimes they are cornered and there is nothing they can do.” Mohlala also said to ensure that the police are safe, they frequently undergo training that capacitates them to be able to defend themselves in various situations. The Mpumalanga MEC for community safety, security and liaison, Vusi Shongwe, said the police should leave no stone unturned and ensure that all suspects linked to police officer attacks are arrested. “There is no amount of disrespect similar to attacking members of security agencies. The police lay down their lives every day to protect the community and enforce the law. That is why we view any attack on security agencies as an attack on the community and the state.” Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram