The University of Mpumalanga admits that the R27m upgrade to include the Lowveld’s first tartan track has since completion in 2019, never been used for any major events. With much anticipation, the track was supposed to host the fourth leg of the Pumas School of Speed Series (headed by Usain Bolt) in February 2020, but that was moved to Hoërskool Nelspruit on short notice, without any reasons given. Construction of the track started in October 2017. According to the director of stakeholder liaison and communications at UMP, Tlangelani Ubisi, the official opening of the sports field was supposed to be in March 2020, but it was cancelled due to Covid-19 restrictions. ALSO READ: Urgent investigation is launched against Rob Ferreira “The upgrading of the sports fields, including the tartan track, was completed towards the end of 2019. UMP and the National Lotteries Commission planned the official opening of the tartan track on March 27. Unfortunately, Covid-19 disturbed the whole process until today,” he said. Ubisi also said the university has been using the facility ever since its completion for internal games. “Our students have used the different facilities at the upgraded sports field. Our campus has athletic students who always use the facility for their practices. We have also made it available for private use in line with the applicable booking fee. Even though we haven’t had any bookings lately,” he said. Ubisi also dismissed allegations that the upgrade of the sports field and the construction of the tartan track was a wasteful expenditure. “This university construction is a welcome investment by both the administration and students, who are making great use of the facility following the relaxation of the Covid-19 national lockdown regulations,” he said. Ubisi also said UMP is currently in discussion with the management of the Airlink Pumas to use their facilities, and event host one of their games there. ALSO READ: Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court postpones JJ Peters’ case for formal bail application again “The facility was not only built for the students, but it belongs to the people of Mpumalanga. We believe that our discussion with the Pumas will yield good results,” said Ubisi. The Pumas CEO, Marius van Rensburg, confirmed they are in discussion with UMP and will make outcome available once they have reached an agreement. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram