The police have not made any arrests after the farm attack at Mara in which four people were ambushed and robbed by five armed men on March 11. Meanwhile, the FF Plus in Mpumalanga released a statement on Tuesday March 22, calling for the implementation of a rural security plan in the province. The victims, Ansie Nel, her mother, Miemie du Toit (84), Sophie Mpila and Hendrik Nel were not hurt during the incident, however, threats to kill the victims and to chop off their fingers were made by the armed robbers. ALSO READ: Brutal Mara farm attack leaves victims reeling The provincial FF Plus leader, Werner Weber, said in the statement that the party has requested the legislature’s portfolio committee for community safety to contact the MEC for community safety, Vusi Shongwe, and the provincial police commissioner, Lt Gen Semakaleng Manamela, to appear before the committee to report on the matter. “They must provide answers on the implementation of the rural security plan in Mpumalanga, and on the critical shortage of police resources, such as vehicles, which is preventing the police from doing their job properly,” he said. ALSO READ: Last roar from well-known lion of Lionspruit echoes through Marloth Park “Although it is the duty of the police to implement the rural security plan, the MEC, as political head, must monitor its implementation. The FF Plus once again makes a serious appeal to rural communities to sharpen their personal security measures.” Weber said this can be done by joining the local farm guards and community policing forums, and by not slackening vigilance and not trusting strangers.” A Nelspruit police spokesperson, Const Bongani Mokoena, said the police were still investigating the matter and that no arrests have been made. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram