Mornings are full of surprises. Some days start off on the right note, and others seem to fall apart seconds after you leave the house. There are days you leave the house just in time to avoid the usual bumper-to-bumper traffic. The radio station you’re tuned into keeps playing all your favourite songs, and you step into the office early enough to get a head start on the day’s work. Other days you drive into kilometres upon kilometres of traffic on a scorching hot morning that makes your deodorant work overtime. By the time you make it to the office, you’ve spent what feels like an entire day behind the wheel, and you still have eight hours of work to look forward to. Your day’s usually only as good as your morning. If you get off on the wrong foot, the bad vibes tend to snowball until well into the afternoon. The opposite is also true for good mornings. Luckily, there’s an easy solution to even the worst mornings: A good lunch. And when it comes to midday pick-me-ups, nothing beats a burger! Sunny Side Up Mornings You know those mornings when absolutely nothing can go wrong? They’re the kind of mornings when the roads are uncharacteristically clear, all the robots miraculously work, and you arrive at work with a bit of time to spare. A Classic Beef Burger was made for days like these. When you’re still buzzing from the euphoria of a stress-free menu, a Classic Burger with all the basics and no fancy trimmings will do. Boring Break of Day On some days, nothing too wild happens in the morning. Sure, a taxi driver decided to turn a random stretch of road into a stop, but you’re not too bothered by that. The radio in your car sounds like background noise, and you can’t even remember the song that was playing two minutes ago. Nothing in particular is wrong; it’s just one of those ‘I should have stayed in bed’ kind of mornings. You’ll need something more decked out than a Classic Beef Burger. The situation calls for something way more savoury, like a Bacon & Cheese Burger. And while you’re at it, make sure there’s a generous serving of chips to go with it. Haibo Mornings Everyone’s had one of these. It’s the kind of morning where you wake up in darkness because of unannounced loadshedding, and you haven’t ironed anything, nogal. To top things off, no power means faulty robots, so you have a few traffic jams to look forward to. It’s simple: You’re practically late for work and you’re going to show up with creased clothing. Eish! On days like this, not any burger will do. You need something that tastes like everything’s going to be alright. On those kinds of days, only Wimpy’s Double Double Cheeseburger and Chips will do. As soon as you sink your teeth into a burger with two pure beef patties and two slices of cheese, even the worst mornings feel like a minor setback. Order online or via the Wimpy Rewards App to skip the queue. Burgers make everything better. No matter how your day starts off, the best form of damage control can be found on a burger menu. If your morning was less than enjoyable, make sure you have a tasty lunch to look forward to.