If recent times have taught us anything, it’s that our homes are sanctuaries. The heart of any home is the kitchen. Here we find nourishment, we laugh and share, and we strengthen family bonds. Whether you’re upgrading your kitchen or designing a new one, there are two ways you can do it. You can choose the hard life, or you can choose the easy life. Your best solution is choosing Easylife Kitchens. We offer a wide range of kitchen finishes and accessories that are world-class and state-of-the-art, and we are much more affordable than you think. We make it easy for you by providing a financing option, so speak to any of our design consultants for more information. Apart from kitchens, we also manufacture custom bathroom vanities, bedroom built-in-cupboards, studies and bars, so you can give other areas of your home a facelift too. You will notice our passion for perfection the moment you walk into any of our 32 showrooms nationwide. Here our professionally trained Design Consultants will spend time with you to prepare a design and quotation to suit your exact needs. The R 750 consultation fee covers site visits and consultations. This consultation fee will be credited to your account once you decide to accept our quotation and pay the deposit. You will then receive an itemised quote and the design plans. Your dream kitchen will be manufactured in one of our two factories situated in Cape Town and Johannesburg that form the heart of our business. You are assured of the highest quality of workmanship and a professional installation. Our team manages each aspect from start to finish and works closely with your renovations teams. Will you have peace of mind with our guarantee, which covers small details like hinges? Of course! Will you feel proud when your friends and family compliment you on your style and taste? Indeed! How satisfied will you be by your affordable investment? Extremely! You can rest assured that only our best is good enough for you. This is the Easylife Kitchens way. This should be your way. Your vision. Our expertise. The Perfect kitchen.