The City Changers Social Services Association wants you to see its heart and passion for the broken, bruised and destitute members of the community. The NPO’s chairperson, Leanie Erasmus, said these two things shine through in all that services City Changers offers. The association was established in 2017 and has four different “branches”. Firstly, there is the Tamar Restoration Centre that offers restoration processes to women and children. This includes grief share, divorce care, divorce care for kids, forgiveness sessions, soul care and walking with wounded children. ALSO READ: First wine show at Café Crust a great success The NPO further assists with job hunting for the unemployed, connecting women with the right authorities if they need a place of safety and working hand in hand with Child Welfare and school psychologists. It even provides assistance to those who need to relocate due to financial strain or safety concerns. As an additional support system, City Changers also hosts single mommy events where sponsors get involved to bless mothers with necessities and something to spoil them on the day. The second “branch” is named His Bounty. Through this section of the NPO, food and clothing are provided to families in need in Mbombela and surrounding areas. Food is handed out on a monthly basis. Therapeutic intervention is also provided should families have such a need. The third and newest addition to the City Changers’ initiative is Grace Baby Haven, a centre for abandoned and neglected babies. Erasmus said, “We believe that all babies are fearfully and wonderfully made. Justin and Ané Grobbler, our house parents, opened the doors of this safe haven in January this year. We work hand in hand with organisations like Child Welfare and CMR to provide safety for these little ones.” ALSO READ: Urgent investigation is launched against Rob Ferreira Lastly there is the Celebrate Recovery programme. This deals with people struggling with various “hurts, habits and hang-ups”, as the NPO calls them. It is a weekly support group for anyone who wants to attend and has been an ongoing project for the past five years. “I would love to shine some light on all the services we offer; to bring awareness to the help people can get and also make potential new sponsors aware of how we are impacting the community,” said Erasmus. “We also want to inspire the power of together, where two are better than one; where we can achieve so much more when we take hands than we ever could by doing it alone. Where friendship and vision partner alongside with a love for the community, there is no telling what can happen. “When we get together we have the power to alleviate the pain and suffering in a community in phenomenal ways. We would love to have the opportunity to share our passion for the city and inspire others to also become City Changers.” Should you wish to get involved, you can contact Monique Du Venage on enquiries@ccsocialservices.co.za. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram