Hosting venues for the Castle Lager Rugby Championship against New Zealand matches have aligned their on-sale dates for the first time. Come August, it will be eight years since the Springboks last defeated the All Blacks in our home country. In the past, the hosting venues have launched their ticket sales in an ad hoc manner, but this year SA Rugby and the host unions have aligned on a coordinated approach, considering the significance of the season. ALSO READ: Pumas and Sharks name teams for Mbombela clash The announcement offered revived excitement as people have been barred from attending home Springbok matches in South Africa for the past two years because of Covid-19 restrictions. Fans have been permitted to return to matches in 2022 and the expectation is that the current limit of 2 000 per match will be relaxed over the coming months. Tickets are priced within a broad range with all venues offering an entry level price of R150 (R200 at Emirates Airline Park) with top-priced tickets at R1 500 for the mouth-watering mini-series against the All Blacks. Tickets for the test match at Mbombela Stadium will be available from Ticketpro and Computicket. Bonga Sebesho, FNB brand experience head, said they are excited to offer pre-sale tickets to FNB clients on March 7 and 8. Sebesho encourages customers to grab this opportunity to purchase pre-sale tickets by using their FNB virtual cards and RMB Private Bank virtual cards. ALSO READ: Interhoër 2022: Nellies nog eens stewig op die kruin! SA Rugby and the host unions urge supporters to only buy from authorised outlets (Ticketpro and Computicket) and no other ticketing outlets, suppliers or re-sellers, to avoid being ripped off at massively inflated prices. Government’s prevailing health and safety requirements at the time of the matches will be in place and rugby fans are urged to make sure they are vaccinated to ensure entry into the venues. Castle Lager Incoming Series fixtures (kick-off times TBC): July 2: Springboks vs Wales – Loftus Versfeld, Pretoria – R150 to R1 000 July 9: Springboks vs Wales – Toyota Stadium, Bloemfontein – R150 to R1 000 July 16: Springboks vs Wales – DHL Stadium, Cape Town – R150 to R1 250 August 6: Springboks vs New Zealand – Mbombela Stadium, Mbombela – R150 to R1 500 August 13: Springboks vs New Zealand – Emirates Airline Park, Johannesburg – R200 to R1 500 September 24: Springboks vs Argentina – Hollywoodbets Kings Park, Durban – R150 to R800