Forex trading occurs on the worlds biggest, decentralised market – namely the Foreign Exchange. While there are great profits to be made through currency speculation, the decentralised nature of the Forex market requires a certain level of security against unnecessary losses. Such security is better ensured for South African traders by signing up with FSCA Forex brokers.  The FSCA is South Africa’s market conduct regulator of financial institutions, ensuring that members conduct their affairs with transparency and safety towards their clients. In this article, we explore the best FSCA-regulated brokers which top the list for their excellent trading conditions and great trading features. South Africa-based Khwezi Trade is an online forex and CFD broker. Khwezi Trade is one of a handful of brokers who have been granted the necessary ODP licence form the FSCA ensuring it can continue to operate as a broker. Khwezi Trade has some of the best trading conditions in the industry. The broker’s spreads are tight, averaging at 0.6 pips, and there is no commission for trading. Open a free trading account and start trading now.  Tickmill’s trading fees are lower than those of most other brokers. Tickmill’s spread-only account, the Classic has spreads of up to 0.1 pips. Deposits and withdrawals at Tickmill are also free of charge. Payments can be made via bank transfer, credit/debit card or Skrill, for example. Tickmill offers MetaTrader 4 as a trading platform, which is compatible with PC, WebTrader and mobile devices. Read more: Hefty fine for well-known trader with no licence For both new and experienced traders, HotForex offers a variety of account types. The broker provides a Premium account with a EUR/USD spread of 0.0 pips on average, and there are no additional charges. All traders have access to the MT4 and MT5 platforms. There are 49 forex pairings, CFDs on metals, indices, 56 stocks, 7 commodities, and 7 Crypto pairs to choose from. The broker offers a low minimum deposit of just $5. The safety of your finances and trading must be prioritised. Dealing with the brokers listed above will assist you to achieve financial trading security.