The Our City of Mbombela movement is gaining quite a bit of traction with residents and organisations rolling up their sleeves to restore the City to its former glory. The movement was launched on February 24 at the Capital Hotel and was initiated by SPAR Lowveld, the KLCBT and Cecilia Architects, with We Care 4 Nelspruit, the City of Mbombela, The Power of 8000 and Riverside CID also getting on board. Renowned Lowvelder Sandra Jacobs, who is heading the initiative’s social media, said Our City of Mbombela movement (called Our Mbombela on social media) is creating a conduit for funding and putting the spotlight on citizens, businesses and organisations already contributing to the initiative, and those who wish to contribute in future. On March 3, AfriForum Nelspruit headed to Steiltes Nature Reserve to cut the overgrown grass that had sprung up in the area. The grass cutting was completed with the cooperation of City of Mbombela. ALSO READ: Boy drowns in quarry A Facebook post by the organi-sation said the clean-up was also in support of the Our Mbombela movement. “The reserve is a popular recreational area for locals, drivers and specifically birdwatchers who come to search for the much sought-after bosloeries that breed in the reserve,” said the post. “The local municipality ensured that the larger areas were cut with its equipment while AfriForum cleaned the relaxation areas, fences and parking lot areas with foresters.” Also joining in was We Care 4 Nelspruit’s TJ Maré who spent Tuesday March 8 with Agripruning, cutting back overgrown grass hanging over onto the Uitkyk Road and Ferreira Street. ALSO READ: PCA does last 14m of 7 000km in triumphant, foot-stomping style in White River Jacobs said the movement was receiving positive feedback from the community. “Barberton has contacted us to talk about initiating a project there. Gundle Plastics has donated as many black refuse bags and plastic sheeting as needed, and Talisman has also donated equipment.” “Motswako has pledged a monthly contribution and volunteers, and Harcourts’ Boet Nothnagel has also pledged support.” Jacobs added that Michelle Higgo, the general manager of Emnotweni StayEasy and Southern Sun Hotels, donated paint to the cause. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram