Google today announced the participants in Google for Startups Accelerator Africa, Class 7. The selected start-ups are developing solutions in areas such as healthcare, education, fleet management, logistics automation and recruiting. This seventh class includes 15 tech start-ups from seven African countries. The class was selected from thousands of applications, with final selection based on product stage, program alignment and market fit. Over the next three months, they will work with Google mentors and facilitators learning best practices on a range of topics including artificial intelligence, big data, organisational culture and growth strategies. Google for Startups Accelerator Africa programs are organised around a virtual boot-camp concept that includes seminars, one-on-one coaching sessions, and peer-to-peer learning opportunities. Boot-camps will take place in March, April and May. Folarin Aiyegbusi, Head of Startup Ecosystem, Africa said “We are thrilled to be starting off our seventh cohort with such a diverse and inspiring group of companies, who are harnessing technology to tackle the problems that many people on the continent face every day. “Start-ups in Africa are solving some of the region’s most pressing issues -from employment to logistics, banking, healthcare and education. This is a journey that we are happy to be on.” The Google for Startups Accelerator Africa program has supported 82 start-ups from 17 African countries over the past four years. Collectively, they have raised $112 million (more than R1.6b) and created 2800 direct jobs. In this time Google has invested $5m ( roughly R7.5m) through a combination of equity-free funding and product credits for Google services. “As a digital identity onboarding platform based in Nigeria, iVerify.ng is extremely delighted to have been selected for Class 7 of Google for Startups Accelerator Africa amidst our need to deploy more robust technology infrastructure and scale our operations across Africa. We’re looking forward to the workshops, mentoring and inestimable value we’ve heard so much about. Thank you for validating our dream!!” said Zita Agwunobi, CEO of iVerify.ng, one of the selected start-ups. Balqis Chepkwony CEO of Kenyan start-up Fleetsimplify said the company is thrilled to have been selected for the Google for Startups Accelerator Africa. “We are looking forward to working with the Google team to bring sustainable shared mobility solutions in Africa,” said Chepkwony. “Google is committed to Africa’s growing start-up and developer ecosystem,” added Aiyegbusi. “Providing end-to-end support and investment to start-ups pays off for everyone in the long run. As these start-ups grow, they advance their local economies, create jobs and opportunities, and provide solutions in their communities. A stronger African economy is great for everyone, and Google is committed to helping African businesses thrive,” he concluded. The selected start-ups are: 