STEELPOORT – The minister of water and sanitation, Senzo Mchunu, and the deputy minister, David Mahlobo, recently led a site visit to De Hoop Dam. Mchunu said the aim of the visit was to inspect the progress of the dam and its status of water supply. The De Hoop-Nebo Plateau bulk scheme was established to ensure sustainable water provision to 53 617 households in 62 villages within the Nebo plateau. The De Hoop-Nebo Plateau bulk scheme falls under Fetakgomo Tubatse and Makhuduthamaga local municipalities within the Sekhukhune District Municipality (SDM) and the project is anticipated to be completed by June. Mchunu also met with the Lebalelo Water Users Association at Thaba Moshate Casino to find out about the progress made on the proposal it came up with the department to improve the supply of water from De Hoop
Dam to communities. The meeting followed a presentation made by the association to the minister, requesting to get involved equally in the sector. Mchunu suggested it team up with government to come up with a joint proposal. Presented by the acting deputy director general of infrastructure in the department, Motebele Moshodi, the new association will incorporate the provision of security to the dam through a resourcing partnership between the department and the private sector. Moshodi said the proposed plan will also bring socio-economic development opportunities that include skills development in construction, water services, roads and tourism. In concluding the events, Mchunu said a political steering committee on water will be established to deal with various water and sanitation projects in the province. He said the committee will be led by the premier, Stan Mathabatha. De Hoop Dam was designed to address
water challenges in the region and opened in 2014. Eight years later and it seems the dream is still far from being realised as communities continue to protest for clean water. The dam cost taxpayers about R3.5b and was officially opened by Jacob Zuma. During its opening it was reported that the dam was erected for two primary purposes. “The first was to supply water to the towns, industries and poorly serviced rural communities in the Sekhukhune, Waterberg and Capricorn districts of Limpopo.
“Secondly, the dam was to supply water to the mines in order to help unlock vast mineral deposits, mainly in the form of platinum group metals found in the region,” Zuma said. The dam is currently not succeeding in
these two primary purposes