Although listed as a historical site, visitors to the Barberton Cemetery can be sure to expect sewage-covered graves and vandalised headstones. However, that is only if one manages to find the graves among the sea of overgrown grass blanketing the cemetery. Lowvelder visited the cemetery on March 11 and found gravesites completely caked in dried sewage, while other graves could not even been seen through the tall grass. Several broken headstones could be seen as well as a large collection of litter and beer bottles throughout the historical site. A local, who has family buried at the cemetery and who would not be named as he has allegedly received threats against his life, said he had reportedly been attacked while visiting the cemetery a few months ago. ALSO READ: Bothashoek woman killed by alleged boyfriend He added that the sewage flowing into the graveyard has been a problem for a few years now. “We cannot visit our family’s graves in Barberton, as the street and a number of graves are covered with used condoms, used sanitary pads and raw sewage,” said the local. “The toilets, gates and manhole covers in the cemetery were all stolen years ago and have not been replaced. During funerals, cars fall into the open manholes as they are hidden by overgrown grass. “The graveyard is well advertised as a tourist attraction and is listed as a historical cemetery on a number of the heritage walk brochures in Mbombela.” He said several complaints had been made to the City of Mbombela, however, the response was that there were allegedly no tools to maintain and fix issues at the site. Mbombela resident Mandla Lukhele Kelly said he last visited the cemetery on Saturday March 19. “It was disgusting. Cleaning is needed,” he said. Another Lowvelder, Karen Schnepel Mattheus, said she had not visited the cemetery in years as she no longer feels safe there. A local, Christi Grobbelaar van Burick, also said the cemetery is no longer safe and has been in a state of decline for many years. The City of Mbombela was sent media queries regarding the matter on March 14 however, no response was received at the time of going to press. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga High Court orders taxi associations to stop violence directed at UMP motorists