Residents and the holders of informal stalls blocked the road between Pilgrims Rest and Graskop on Thursday February 24. The FF Plus sent an urgent letter to the Mpumalanga MEC for public works, roads and transport, Mohita Latchminarain, requesting that she intervene and put an end to the violent protests affecting Pilgrims Rest these past few days. The party is concerned that these violent protests by a dissatisfied local community about a goldmine that was promised but is still not operational, could deliver a severe blow to the town’s already fragile economy. “The FF Plus lodged a complaint about this with the public protector, who found that the tender processes were unlawful and instructed the department to start the process from scratch. The ongoing protests are jeopardising existing job opportunities; it could cause unemployment to increase even further and put Pilgrims Rest on a slippery slope to utter ruin,” said Werner Weber, the Mpumalanga FF Plus leader. According to members of the community, the planned goldmine of Theta Gold Mines will create much-needed job opportunities. The mine, however, still needs its final approval. Over the past five years, Theta Gold Mines has invested approximately R221m in Pilgrims Rest. Pilgrims Rest’s economy is mainly dependent on tourism, and the protests could result in tourist numbers dwindling and guides dropping the town from their programmes. Pilgrims Rest falls under the Thaba Chweu Local Municipality (Graskop, Lydenburg, Mashishing, Pilgrims Rest, Sabie), but Mpumalanga’s Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport is responsible for the town’s management. In 2012, the department unilaterally terminated the lease contracts of several businesses in the historical town and gave them 30 days to evacuate the premises. New leases were reportedly given to new tenants at extremely low rates. The Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport said in a statement to Steelburger/Lydenburg News on Friday that the situation was under control.