An accident that occurred nearly a week ago, leaving three children without parents, has evoked a remarkable compassion and kindness from the White River community. Rochelle (11) and Markus (19) Bruyns were in an accident with their mother and stepfather, Lizelle and Jaco van der Merwe, and Markus’ friend. The five of them were travelling to Vygeboom Dam when they were involved in a head-on collision with another vehicle. Lizelle and Jaco lost their lives. The three youngsters were admitted to Kiaat Hospital. The driver of the other vehicle did not sustain any serious injuries. ALSO READ: Last roar from well-known lion of Lionspruit echoes through Marloth Park The siblings’ older sister, Lerushka (21), who resides in Malalane, drove through to Kiaat when she received word of the accident. More support came in the form of the children’s grandparents, Tienie and Joan Coetzer, Koos van der Merwe and Alida Diedericks Burger. They all arrived between Saturday and Monday. Although they did not want to elaborate too much with Lowvelder, they sent their heartfelt thanks to the wonderfully caring White River community. “May God bless you.” ALSO READ: Airlink Pumas ruthless in defeating DHL Western Province in Cape Town This includes Rochelle’s ballet teacher, Elan Burger, other ballet mums and friends’ mums who were on standby around the clock. One mother, Merinda Pienaar, has spent every night in the hospital. Kiaat was also lauded for its service over these last few days. Rochelle had spent three days in hospital before her grandparents broke it to her that her mother and stepfather had died in the accident. It was decided to only share this devastating news when they were all present. A family friend, Bruce Macaulay, who has been visiting the hospital daily since the accident, said Rochelle was discharged on Wednesday, but that her brother still had to remain in traction for some time. Macaulay mentioned the excellent service Kiaat had provided the children over these last few days. Markus started with physiotherapy on Wednesday. His friend’s parents asked that no information about their son be published. With the children having been in hospital for multiple days, naturally there will be a substantial medical bill. There is, however, no medical aid to cover this. Cue Accicare Medical Service Provider. André Barnard, the area representative for the company, came across the accident by pure chance on his way to a meeting. Accicare serves as the middleman between the Road Accident Fund (RAF) and hospitals/doctors. Barnard said they pay all the costs involved for the medical bill and then claim it back from the RAF after all treatments have been administered. The total amount for the medical costs is not yet available, seeing as all medical treatments have not been finalised yet. ALSO READ: Pedestrian bridge over R40 near new development will save lives, says business chamber Aside from medical costs, there are also funeral and other costs to cover. A fund was created to provide for this, and was amazingly supported by the public. In the midst of this past week’s heartbreak for this family and its friends, a close friend of Lizelle’s, Sharon Billson, found these words comforting: “Sadly missed along life’s way, we quietly remember you every day. No longer in our life to share, but in our hearts, you’re always there.” She said they were left with warm memories of their beloved Lizelle and Jaco. In losing the couple, those closest to them have lost children, a sibling, amazing parents, and dear friends. The Van der Merwes’ memorial service will be held on Saturday. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram