After walking a long road with the National Teaching Awards, a Hoërskool Bergvlam teacher finally won the award for Excellence in ICT Enhanced Technology in 2020. This has opened many a door since. Louise Fullard has a passion for enhancing the teaching process, and if she had her way, she would see it transform, technologically, a lot faster. One of her focus points of the last two years has been the Moodle Learning Management System (LMS) that aided the school immensely, especially during Covid-19 when learners were unable to attend classes in person. At the beginning of the year she formed part of a group of five presenters at a week-long training session in Johannesburg. ALSO READ: Gospel group releases second album The presenters and 75 Department of Basic Education officials from all provinces (who were selected to attend the training) were formally invited by Hubert Mathanzima Mweli, the director general of basic education. During the training, Fullard demonstrated the ways in which Bergvlam utilises Moodle, what it is exactly, why it should be used, and so much more. She said the school uses it in many more ways than the department initially intended. “It is about more than just teaching and learning. This is an interactive platform where you can communicate with parents, with everyone.” She said you can have exposure worldwide if you wanted to. Fullard is grateful to the people she met along the way and the networks she has built up. ALSO READ: Three men die in accident on N4 Toll Road towards Mbombela It had reached a stage where she did a case study for her honours thesis on Bergvlam’s LMS, the effect of Covid-19, and how the school overcame it with the help of the system. Her research was of such quality that she was invited to write a national paper about it for the Bulgarian Comparative Education Society.  She recently received word that it had been accepted and would be internationally published. Building forth on this yet again, she has started her master’s degree to take the whole theme further, maybe even comparing it on an international level. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram