A provincial police spokesperson, Brig Selvy Mohlala, said Mike Nyathi appeared in the Skukuza Regional Court on Friday March 18 for his sentencing. ALSO READ: Help Samuel take a bite out of the Big Apple “Nyathi and Janeiro Chunguane entered the Kingfisherspruit Section inside Kruger National Park on September 17, 2017, and began hunting illegally. They shot and killed a white rhinoceros. Field rangers working at the said section fortunately heard the gunshots and became aware of the intruders inside the park. “The rangers recovered a .458 Win Mag CZ 550 bolt-action rifle without serial numbers, two .458 Win Mag cartridges of ammunition, an axe and a knife,” he said. The men appeared in the court where they were both granted bail. Thereafter Chunguane fled to Mozambique and a warrant for his arrest was issued. The police are still looking for him, while on May 13, 2019, Nyathi got involved in a second incident of poaching at the Satara Section in the Kruger National Park. “The rangers became aware of this and, with the assistance of a tracker dog, tracked the suspect who happened to be Nyathi. He was found by the rangers hiding under a big fallen tree. Once again, the Skukuza police were informed and during his arrest, the field rangers recovered a .458 Win Mag CZ 550 bolt-action rifle without serial numbers, and two .458 Win Mag cartridges. The accused was identified as Mike Nyathi,” said Mohlala. He was charged again and appeared in court, where he was denied bail until his cases were finalised.  The accused was convicted and sentenced in relation to the two incidents, to an effective 25 years imprisonment, and declared unfit to possess a firearm. ALSO READ: KNP rangers arrest suspect for unlawful possession of firearm and ammunition Meanwhile, the provincial police commissioner, Lt Gen Semakaleng Manamela, thanked everyone who had contributed to the case that led to the conviction and ultimate sentence. “We commend the team of field rangers, the investigation team, the prosecution team as well as the judiciary for a job well done. We hope others who might think of poaching will be deterred by this sentence,” she said. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram 