Motorists making use of Koraalboom Avenue in West Acres are fuming as holes on the road are becoming deeper and more dangerous. They are now demanding that the contractor speed up the process of completing the project because the road poses a danger to them, damages their cars and is causing unnecessary traffic back-ups. The project to build a secondary access road to the Mpumalanga High Court was initiated by the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure through the Independent Development Trust. ALSO READ: Last roar from well-known lion of Lionspruit echoes through Marloth Park To execute the project, the IDT appointed a subcontractor, Thenjwa Engineering and Projects (TEP) in 2019, and some water pipes and cables near the Koraalboom traffic circle had to be dug up. The director of TEP, Mpumelelo Ngwenya, said it was instructed to stop working on the project because of a misunderstanding between his company and the engineer of the project manager. Residents expressed their dissatisfaction with the road on social media, with Tiekie van der Merwe saying, “It’s really a and dangerous situation and it’s just going to stay that way. The trenches are getting deeper and harder to drive over”. ALSO READ: Pedestrian bridge over R40 near new development will save lives, says business chamber Eugéne Mulder said it’s not the citizens of Nelspruit’s problem. “We pay our taxes and rates; fix the roads and do your job that you are getting a monthly salary for. Stop appointing contractors that do not have the accolades to do the job. Keep these individuals accountable.” Amanda Oosthuyzen said it’s a dangerous of road. “People drive on the wrong side of the road to avoid the ditches.” ALSO READ: One CIT heist suspect arrested in Schoemansdal, police hunt the rest Joseph Ngala, spokesperson for the City of Mbombela, said it has engaged with all stakeholders involved in the project and informed them that it is in the process of appointing a new contractor to finish the remaining work. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram