A lucky few Lowveld talents have the opportunity of a lifetime coming up in July – the IMTA 2022 New York. Monica Viljoen is one of them. The convention, hosted by the IMTA (International Modeling and Talent Association), will consist of 10 days of competitions across various sections, including modelling, acting, dancing and singing. This opportunity comes once a year and gives hopeful young models, actors, singers and dancers the opportunity to showcase their talents on an international stage with over 300 scouts keeping an eye out for the next big thing. With an opportunity like this comes a substantial cost, however. Should you wish to get involved in funding this amazing journey for these talented locals, contact Ilze van der Merwe at Ramps-to-Runway Nelspruit at nelspruit@ramps-to-runway.com or on 082 920 2031. Monica is almost 14 and already 1.79 metres tall – likely a modelling agency’s dream. ALSO READ: Home affairs official and Mbombela farmer arrested for corruption This youngster is, with the help of her community, on her way to IMTA 2022 New York. Monica will be focusing on the modelling section at the convention. The thought of the Big Apple leaves her both nervous and excited. “I am very nervous, but I think it will be a very good experience and we will learn a lot.” In terms of expectations, she is hoping to be offered a contract there and perhaps even win top model. Her coach, the owner of Ramps-to-Runway Nelspruit, Ilze van der Merwe, said they are very hopeful for her potential going into this. She did modelling on and off until the age of 12, when she really got into it. Her mother wanted to be sure she was at an age where she knew what she was getting into. ALSO READ: JJ Peters abandons bail application in Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court She has been told by many people that her features make her the perfect fit for the industry. Eventually, she said, she decided to go for it because she felt it might be her natural calling. Besides school keeping her busy, Monica enjoys her time spent at Ramps-to-Runway, drawing and doing art in her free time. “I also do my make-up; I love make-up.” Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram