The Barberton Regional Court has sentenced Freddie Jacobs, a former security guard of a mine in Barberton, to pay a R20 000 fine or serve three years’ imprisonment as well as a five-year suspended sentence. This follows Jacobs’ arrest on November 25, 2020 after an intensive multipronged operation was executed by the Hawks’ Serious Organised Crime Investigation in Mpumalanga, crime intelligence, tactical response team, technical unit and SSG Security service. The provincial Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (DPCI) Hawks spokesperson, Capt Dineo Lucy Sekgotodi, said information had led investigators to the Barberton Puma Filling Station. The information was that a person was aiding illegal miners in entering into Sheba Mine without being seen. The operation resulted from a major investigation on illicit mining at Barberton gold mines. ALSO READ: Home affairs official and Mbombela farmer arrested for corruption “Jacobs, a former SSG Security company employee, was arrested after receiving payment of R100 000, to offer protection and assist a group of 12 illegal miners to illegally enter Sheba Mine to steal gold-bearing material and come out safely without being arrested,” said Sekgotodi. “The R100 000 was recovered from the suspect’s vehicle. Jacobs was a negotiator and received R100 000 which was payable immediately after the illegal miners were safe and out of the mine,” she said. Jacobs was sentenced to pay a R20 000 fine of which R10 000 had to be paid on Tuesday. The remaining R10 000 is to be paid in monthly instalments of R1 000 until it is paid off. His five-year suspended sentence is on condition that he is not convicted of corruption committed during the period of suspension. Provincial DPCI Maj Gen Zodwa Mokoena welcomed the sentence and applauded the team for a multidisciplinary approach and judiciary for the verdict. She said this ruling will send a message to other suspects who are still performing similar activities. Mokoena issued a stern warning to those entrusted with the responsibility of safeguarding the precious metals of the country to be faithful to their responsibilities as expected or face the full might of the law. ALSO READ: KNP rangers arrest suspect for unlawful possession of firearm and ammunition