Raising over R13 000 for CANSA and accumulating 43 units of blood in just one day, the CANSA Shavathon and SANBS Blood drive hosted by Emnotweni and Riverside Mall on Friday February 25, has been deemed a great success. Lowvelders came out in their numbers to Riverside Mall throughout Friday, to show their support for CANSA and the South African National Blood Service by either donating blood, donating to CANSA and having their hair sprayed every colour of the rainbow by the volunteers. The marketing manager of Emnotweni, Nicolette Botha, said the Shavathon raised R13 150 while 43 donations of blood were made. These donations will save the lives of 129 people. “Combined we raised over R13 000 for CANSA, thanks to the public, our ‘prisoners’ and Emnotweni and Riverside Mall,” she said. “We further purchased 100 cupcakes from Cupcakes of Hope – the proceeds also go towards CANSA.” Botha said the event started on Friday morning with a breakfast that soon turned to chaos when Emnotweni casino’s general manager, Tobie van Schalkwyk, and other business role players were taken into CANSA custody and jailed in Riverside Mall. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Grandson appears in Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court for grandmother’s murder “It was fun and games, and a great atmosphere where friends, family, colleagues and complete strangers bailed out the prisoners by either spraying, shaving or donating towards the CANSA Shavathon and SANBS blood drive,” said Botha. “Overall it was a wonderful event with attendees from Eduvos, Mopani Pharmacy, Emnotweni Hotels, Riverside CID, Marlins Pub, Hi-Q, Radio Laeveld, RISE fm and Lowvelder attending. “The event was well received and enjoyed, there is nothing that pulls a community together like giving back to those who need it most,” she said. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram