Pediatric Care Africa’s Dr André Hattingh will arrive back in White River on March 5 after having travelled over 7 000 kilometres around the country to raise funds for children needing medical care. The epic journey started off at White River Square on February 13, when Hattingh departed for Limpopo on the first stretch of his trip. Since then, Hattingh and some supporters travelled around Limpopo, the North West, the Northern Cape and Cape Town.  “We have been greeted and supported by riders all along our route so far, and the support from fellow bikers throughout Mpumalanga, Limpopo, North West and the Northern Cape has been phenomenal,” said Hattingh. ALSO READ: IN PHOTOS: BUCO Nelspruit hosts Ryobi Truck (Yard) Sale “Upington has long been a favourite stop on our ride due to its friendly people. There we received a fantastic welcome from Woolworths in the Kalahari Mall, and they donated gifts to all the children living in the Jogabet Children’s Home in the area.  “In the evening, we were welcomed and entertained by the Wild Bulls MC in Upington, who raised funds for us, and the effort they made was absolutely heart-warming. We are already looking forward to our visit next year,” said Hattingh. ALSO READ: Petrol attendant, a hero after preventing severe fire damage On February 19, Hattingh was off to Port Nolloth via Alexander Bay, their longest ride for the trip.  “We spent just under nine hours in the saddle,” he said. “There is just something about the Karoo and the Kalahari that brings a smile to your face, as one cannot help to be in awe of its vastness and stark beauty.” Hattingh added that he was warned about a massive grasshopper swarm about 40 kilometres on the way to Springbok. “Luckily they were flying quite high when we reached them, and we managed to ride through rather unscathed.” On Monday February 21, Hattingh arrived in Cape Town.  “We had a short two-day day break in Cape town to visit the Nazareth Children’s Home. We took a number of able-bodied children on a short motorbike ride and afterwards we also donated a large quantity of nappies and of course ice cream before departing to Cape Agulhas, the most southern point on the route.” ALSO READ: Lowveld High School athletes shine at BUCO Interhigh  By Saturday February 26, the PCA was in Mossel Bay and met up with riders from all over the Garden Route and Oudtshoorn en route to Gqeberha (formerly Port Elizabeth). “Our goal with this, our third Ride for a Child charity motorbike ride, was to raise R250 000 as part of the funds required to provide medical treatment, surgeries and nutritional assistance to sick children in need and in food distress.” 