BURGERSFORT – An 11-year-old boy drowned while swimming in a quarry on Sunday afternoon. The incident happened in Praktiseer, next to the illegal dumping site on the Mabotsha Road. Reports indicate that the boy was playing with his siblings and friends next to the quarry. The Tubatse SAPS and the search-and -rescue team recovered the body at about 18:35 on Monday, but it was retrieved by a rescue officer from the Limpopo SAPS. Members of the community policing forum and the Fetakgomo Tubatse Local Municipality’s disaster team were on the scene. The boy was declared dead on the scene by a paramedic. Eyewitnesses and community members of Praktiseer Dark City urged the authorities to fence the quarry as well as the dumping site. “We have been calling for the area to be fenced. We are scared more of our kids will drown during the rainy season.”
They said the pit was caused by those who dig soil and rocks. The Limpopo SAPS also urged parents to ensure their children don’t play in dangerous areas. Meanwhile, the Tubatse area has been affected by drownings recently. On February 3, a 12-year-old boy drowned while he and his peers were swimming in the Tubatse River in Praktiseer. The boy’s body was retrieved by divers. On February 22, Fetakgomo Tubatse Local Municipality (FTLM)’s mayor, Eddie Maila, consoled the Mametja family in Driekop, this after their seven-year-old son was swept by floods in the Moopetsi River. The mayor cautioned parents not to allow children to cross rivers during the rainy seasons. On December 8, the body of a female motorist Daisy Rapholo who had been swept away by a flash flood on the Dwars River bridge in Steelpoort was recovered by search-and-rescue operations. Taxi driver, Godfrey Moraba (30), is still missing after his vehicle was swept away by flash floods on the R577 next to Glencore’s Thorncliffe Mine on December 7. A photo of the vehicle did the rounds on social media, depicting how badly it had been damaged. The missing taxi driver’s father Khupa Moraba, recently confirmed to Steelburger/Lydenburg News team that the Limpopo search and rescue team ceased the search on December 18. “Its still difficult for the family to accept this situation. “We still wish to find the body so that we can have closure. If he is dead, we will bury him with dignity and his spirit will rest in peace. I am an African man and I am scared if we don’t find his remains, there won’t be peace and harmony in the family.”