Pinky Phosa has been appointed as South Africa’s ambassador to the Dominican Republic and Cuba. She is the second politician from Mpumalanga to hold such a position, following Moses Masango’s appointment as the ambassador to Tunisia. Phosa said her primary focus in both countries is to represent the country and the president, but she will also ensure that Mpumalanga is well known. “I will ensure that I promote agriculture, tourism, and business opportunities for the people of my province, however, we must remember that I will not be focusing on one province but the entire country,” she said. ALSO READ: Hit-and-run case back in court, accused threatens journalist Phosa is the wife of former ANC treasurer-general and previous Mpumalanga premier Mathews Phosa. In the 1999 election, she was elected to the Mpumalanga Provincial Legislature. She was appointed deputy speaker. She was promoted to speaker after the 2004 election. She served as a member of the National Assembly for the ANC from 2014 to 2019. She was the chairperson of parliament’s Standing Committee on Appropriations from 2016 until 2019. “It is time to say goodbye to my family and the people of South Africa. I must thank them for allowing me to serve them honourably, and I will miss my family. All I can say is that I will do everything in my power to ensure that I represent the country well,” she said. Her father, Moses Habile, said his daughter has done well in life, not because of her intelligence, but because God chose her to be where she is now. ALSO READ: Shavathon raises more than R13 000 “As a family, we are happy that you have been selected as the ambassador, and we are proud of you. I thank you for the qualities that you have. All I can say to you is that you must not let us down as a family or as a country,” he said. Mathews wished her well on her new journey and reminded her that an ambassador always represents the interests of the state. “I promise to look after the family while you’re away. Go and represent us well, we’ll miss you,” he said. Pinky left South Africa on February 27, so that she can resume her duties from March 1. 