All Public Servants are urged to seize the opportunity of protecting themselves, those they serve and those around them. While the fourth wave remains stable, the virus is still very far from being eliminated and the possibility of future variants remains a reality. The only way to get closer to returning to normality is if more of people vaccinate and take booster shots when made available. At the end of February, South Africa had reached below 5% positivity rate which had signalled stability. However, as winter approaches, there is expectation that the 5th wave could break out. This could possibly happen earlier, depending on variants of concern. On the vaccination side, the country has crossed the 30 million doses administered. This has taken longer than expected, but nevertheless it’s a significant milestone. The dashboard recently launched by government shows the difference in hospitalisation rates between the vaccinated and the unvaccinated. Currently, at least 2/3 of those who are admitted to various hospitals are not vaccinated. The outlook points to the fact that only high coverage vaccination will reduce severe illness, death and most importantly, the emergence of more variants. Cabinet recently announced changes to a number of practices used in the containment and prevention of COVID-19 pandemic. The consultations and alignment with previously gazetted regulations were finalised. These are the changes you need to be aware of as advised by the Ministerial Advisory Committee on COVID-19: These rules apply to vaccinated and unvaccinated people. A special note of gratitude must be given to all public servants who continued to serve during the pandemic and in particular health workers who are on the frontline. The general populace in South Africa can support them by vaccinating in order to prevent severe illness or death, including variants that may occur. #Ke Ready!’ to move away from lockdown regulations, protect ourselves against future variants and to move to the economic recovery program of our country. You are invited by the Department of Public Service and Administration to be part of this great recovery and success story. Accept the invitation by vaccinating! Vaccination Matters | Vaccines Save Lives | Serve and Protect 