 Set to take place on May 7, this 42.2km Comrades qualifier will be run mainly on the N4 toll route. The race will start at Laerskool Oosterlijn in Emgwenya (Waterval Boven), with the route taking runners down the escarpment, through the Waterval Boven tunnel and finishing at the Sappi Skills Training Centre in Ngodwana. The 2022 event comes after a 12-year hiatus and promises to be the most memorable yet! It is expected to attract some of the country’s top road runners and will leave a lasting impression as it is being run on a road enveloped by mesmerising scenery. This event will also comprise two other road races – a half marathon (21.1km) and a 10km race. These are also expected to attract top-class athletes and road running aficionados. Registration for all three races has officially opened, with early bird entries closing on April 17 and late entries open until May 2. Only online entries will be accepted for this event and those wanting to register can do so HERE, where they can also obtain more information about the route itself. According to TRAC’s communication manager, Solange Soares, as the concessionaire of N4 route it made sense to revive this once prevalent race, which has always been run on the Maputo Corridor. Soares says, “Not only is road running popular in our country for its health benefits, it is also accessible to anyone as a sport and is thus in line with our corporate social investment (CSI) initiatives. “TRAC and the Nedbank LVCC Running Club are also confident that the reinstatement of this marathon will have numerous positive spinoffs. “These include making it possible for runners who are desperate to compete to do so again, while simultaneously benefitting communities along our road”. With South Africa still on Covid-19 adjusted alert level 1, strict Covid-19 protocols will be adhered to throughout the race. Although this may change if the national state of emergency is lifted before race day, the protocols are currently as follows: • Runners will be set off in batched groups.• Masks will be required on buses and at the race’s start and finish.• Waterpoints will be managed according to Covid-19 regulations.• A tog bag collection point will be available at the start, from where they will be transported to the finish. Beth Bloch of the Nedbank Running Club agrees that the 2022 TRACN4 Elands Marathon will be the best yet, saying that the club is ecstatic about the opportunity. “We are eager to host this event and are already working hard behind the scenes to ensure that it will be an extraordinary race for all who participate in it.” 