Let’s keep it a hundred: Side hustles are a necessity, not a luxury. Let’s do the maths quickly: February kicked off with a fuel price hike, Eskom wants to charge an additional 20% for electricity, and a grand just doesn’t get you as much groceries as it used to. When you compare your salary with the cost of living, it’s safe to say the numbers don’t add up. The thought of financial freedom has probably crossed your mind at some point, right? It’s easy to know why. Nothing slaps harder than having a bit of disposable income. Maybe you’ve been toying around with the idea of making a bit of cheese on the side. You’ve got the why, but you’re still unsure about the how. The good news is that anyone can phanda like a pro. Here are a few principles of uk’phanda to help you beef up your bank balance. Be in it for the long run You probably already knew this, but a business doesn’t get off the ground immediately. Some months are going to be good and, at other times, you’re going to catch hands from the challenges of entrepreneurship. Don’t throw in the towel just yet. Success hits different when you’ve overcome a few hurdles. Just stay the course and your Ls will eventually turn into a massive W. Do something you love That point we made about preparing for the long haul… There’s no way that it’s going to work if you’re doing something you hate. Besides, enough people are doing jobs they’re not truly passionate about. Why would anyone do the same with a side hustle? But it’s not just about doing something you like, it’s also about assessing your skillset and figuring out if you’re equipped with the right knowledge and experience for your business. If you lack the skills needed to run your prospective business, now’s a better time than ever to start learning. Reward yourself for reaching milestones Every serious phandapreneur sets clear goals for their business. Whether short-, medium-, or long-term, every achievement is worth celebrating. Here’s the catch, though: You must reward yourself as often as possible. You don’t have to blow big racks to celebrate. The reward you deserve could cost as little as five tiger or less, like the Phanda Beef Burger Meal. Imagine coming out of back-to-back meetings to find a burger with a 100g pure beef patty, topped with gherkins, fresh tomato, and lettuce, plus lashings of mayo and BBQ sauce, served with a side of small hand-cut chips: All for just R44.90. That flame-grilled flavour is the perfect reward after a day dedicated to the grind. Everyone could do with a bit of extra cash. The only question is: How many are willing to put in the work needed to add a few extra zeros to their bank account? You’ve got the knowledge; now it’s just about putting it into action.