It was a rainy yet momentous occasion watching the first Fastjet Zimbabwe flight land at Kruger Mpumalanga International Airport (KMI Airport) on March 15. Fastjet Zimbabwe, an award-winning, value-based airline, has officially launched flights from Zimbabwe’s tourism capital, Victoria Falls, to KMI Airport in South Africa. The new schedule service route will operate three times a week on a Monday, Wednesday and Friday. During the launch at KMI Airport, the possibilities this route offers the tourism sectors of both countries were discussed. “The new direct flight will be a seamless connection for travellers on the safari circuit, effectively linking the Lowveld lodges in and around the Kruger National Park directly with Victoria Falls, another of Southern Africa’s greatest tourism attractions,” a statement by the company read. Fastjet will operate the service using the airline’s 50-seater Embraer ERJ145 aircraft. This aircraft type is known to provide the versatility to build a sustainable regional network with the right capacity, while offering customers comfortable seating with generous legroom. ALSO READ: Former Barberton security guard sentenced for aiding illegal miners Fastjet Zimbabwe’s spokesperson, Nunurai Ndawana, said Fastjet is a leading airline operating to Victoria Falls and the region. “We are delighted to be adding another crucial, direct flight connection to Victoria Falls. We believe this route will facilitate accelerated travel between these two globally recognised tourism destinations, thereby massively contributing to the restart of tourism in the region.” Julian Edmunds, the group chief commercial officer for Fastjet, said since the announcement of this route, the response from Victoria Falls and Mpumalanga has been overwhelmingly positive. “Our nonstop service from Victoria Falls to KMI Airport will benefit a variety of travellers especially those that want to maximise their holiday by exploring multiple Southern African destinations in a single visit.” Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram