The man accused of the death of a local businesswoman, Letisia Niemann, in 2019 has been branded as “cold and showing no remorse” to the victim’s family during his court appearances over the past two years and four months. Johan Louwrens is accused of being the driver in a hit-and-run outside Mustangs – The Dancing Place that left her dead.Louwrens appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on February 25, where Niemann’s husband, Eben, said he continued to show no remorse toward him or Niemann’s family. “I am always at every court appearance and in the whole two years that this has been going to court, he has never shown any remorse,” said Eben. ALSO READ: Maroela Makiti at Hervormde Kerk a success “Not once has he come to me or the family to apologise, or say it was an accident or anything. He has told the court he is innocent. He has a very bad attitude, he is playing the victim to everyone,” he said. Furthermore, during Louwrens’ February 25 appearance, he became aggressive and threatening to one of the Lowvelder journalists reporting on the matter.He told the journalist: “I am going to m*er you” while the reporter was at court. Louwrens had previously also visited the newspaper’s offices, to requested that the editor refrain from reporting on the matter as it was “damaging his reputation.” According to a previous article by Lowvelder on the incident, a friend of the couple, Jacques Kotze, said a group of friends had been having a braai at the Niemanns’ house on Saturday September 28, 2019. ALSO READ: IN PHOTOS: BUCO Nelspruit hosts Ryobi Truck (Yard) Sale He said the couple lived on the same premises as their company, Quality Sandblasting and Powder Coating, right next to Mustangs.Afterwards the group had a drink at the bar, where an event had been taking place. Letisia and Eben had been walking home, when she was hit by a bakkie. The incident occurred outside the entrance to the club at 23:00.The vehicle sped off. Hours later, she died of her injuries in hospital. Louwrens handed himself over to the police two days afterwards.