Mafia and other Italian- themed gatherings by night and hitting the Lowveld roads by day; what better way to spend a weekend? Some out-of-towners visited the region over the weekend for the MBT Petroleum Panorama Tour, in true Italian style. The tour, with a collection of Italian brands like Alfa Romeo, Fiat and Vespa, started off in Pretoria, made its way through Middelburg, Dullstroom, Lydenburg and White River on the first day (March 18), and spent the night at Hotel 247. Day two saw the group make their way to Sabie, followed by Pilgrims Rest and Casterbridge Lifestyle Centre, where a visit to the car museum was naturally part of the programme. The Sunday included a trip to Goldwagen, the Sappi Airstrip, Kaapsehoop and finally Abeega Roadhouse. ALSO READ: Hazyview the starting point for old cars, their drivers and passengers to go on an adventure Lowvelder met up with the group in Kaapsehoop. Two of the organisers, Antonio and Saydi Barbosa, explained a few of the finer details of the trip. Antonio said this tour was televised and involved promoting certain brands. It brought support to small Lowveld towns, and of course, gave the group the chance to experience the scenery the area has to offer. Grace Baby Haven has been selected to receive a donation of R12 000 after the tour.  Saydi explained how the driving of the cars and bikes worked. “In the morning, everyone gets to choose a key and then they get to drive a different car.” ALSO READ: Last roar from well-known lion of Lionspruit echoes through Marloth Park Aside from the driving experiences, the organisers tried to make the trip as interesting as possible for the attendees by having, among other things, themed evenings. Saydi said they received good feedback and drivers confirmed this, saying they really enjoyed everything the Lowveld had to offer. The group consisted of Gauteng residents and even individuals from Namibia, Portugal and Durban. “It is a world of fun and we meet all sorts of people. This is an amazing area for this kind of project, because it has a bit of everything,” said Antonio. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram