BURGERSFORT – Cases of gender-based violence and femicide (GBVF) continue to spiral in Tubatse.
The Tubatse police have opened cases of murder and inquests following an incident in which a 26-year-old man had allegedly shot and killed a 19-year-old woman in Bothashoek, Dithabaneng, on Sunday. “It is further reported that an argument ensued and the man shot the victim several times before he fled the scene.” The SAPS and the Emergency Medical Services were called and on arrival, the woman was declared dead.
“Afterwards, a 26-year-old suspect, Tumiso Magabane, was found dead with a gunshot wound to the head, a few kilometres from the crime scene,” stated the Limpopo SAPS spokesperson, Brig Motlafelo Mojapelo. Mojapelo said the firearm used for the commission of the crime was also found next to the suspect’s body. “It is believed the man might have turned the gun on himself,” he said.
The acting provincial police commis-sioner, Maj Gen Jan Scheepers, has urged community members experiencing relationship challenges to seek assistance and to desist from resorting to extreme measures of taking lives.
SAPS investigations continue. Meanwhile, the Department of Social Development has sent a delegation of social workers to Dithabaneng to start with the provision of psychosocial support to the two families. The MEC, Nkarereng Rakgoale, said, “It is so sad to see the woman’s right to life taken away in such a violent manner and also during Human Rights Month. “It is during this time when we all need to respect the right to life of any individual. What we must all know is that women’s rights are also human rights that need to be protected at all times.
“Premier Stan Mathabatha has on Monday spoken out strongly against this scourge of GBVF as he delivered his Human Rights Day message. The team of social workers that has been sent to the area will provide psychological support services to the affected parties in that particular locality. We truly condemn this particular incident,” Rakgoale continued. The Bothashoek murders follows another incident at Alverton in which Sophia Mkhondo was found shot allegedly by her boyfriend a fortnight ago. On February 15, the popular owner of Fish House Restaurant and Pub, Thulani Ntimane, allegedly shot and killed his wife, Masodi Ntimane in Driekop, before shooting himself.