A kaleidoscope of colours will soon dot the Barberton skyline when the Barberton Paragliding Open returns on April 24. Barberton has cemented a reputation as the ideal winter flying site for paragliding enthusiasts. The competition will once again be hosted over seven days from April 24 to 30, with no rest days. Early bird discount, however, ends on March 31.  Pilots will take off at the breathtakingly beautiful Lone Tree Hill as usual, and land at Barberton Golf Club. The site is used exclusively for winter flying, where thermal strengths can vary from less than one to approximately five metres per second, with an average of around two to three metres per second. The flying day usually starts around 12:00, although flying from 10:00 is not uncommon. With the area being a summer rainfall region, rain is not anticipated, and temperatures are expected to vary from around 10 degrees Celsius in the mornings to 28 degrees Celsius in the early afternoon. ALSO READ: St John’s Anglican Parish to celebrate 155th anniversary The site has been used for more than 20 years, initially by hang-gliders, but now predominantly by the paragliding fraternity. During the last couple of years, the site has delivered an average of five successful tasks per competition, with the other days often flyable but not “taskable”. The best flying takes place between about 12:30 and 15:30, with tasks usually set to start at about 13:00. Task distances usually vary from 40 to 60 kilometres. While the site does not hold any South African records, flights of more than 100 kilometres have taken place to the west. ALSO READ: Mozambican arrested for his suspected involvement in Hectorspruit road spikes The site takes a northerly and northeasterly wind, with take-off a trigger on the mountain. Cold fronts bring southernly wind and makes take-off impossible.Berg winds from the west are usually the organisers’ only concern, although these are forecast beforehand. Post-frontal days usually result in the best lifting. Barberton is known as the ideal place for beginners to travel on their first XC glides, but also for hard racing and technical decision making. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram