Despite the fact that the grace period for drivers’ licence renewals ends on Friday April 15, the White River Driver Learner Testing Centre’s (DLTC) system has been offline since Wednesday April 6. According to the Mpumalanga Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison’s spokesperson, Moeti Mmusi, the problem emanates from the national offices and is beyond their control. However, other services such as vehicle licence renewals, application for new testing and application for a new driver’s licences are functioning. ALSO READ: Man arrested in connection with Masoyi CIT heist, remanded in custody “The system error at the Mbombela DLTC that had occurred on Saturday April 9, has been resolved. Queues are currently moving smoothly. We have also extended our working hours to accommodate everyone before the grace period expires. I would like to advise our clients in White River to use their nearest centres, especially those who want to renew their cards,” he said. Mmusi also said due to the load-shedding, people may expect some delays at some of the centres, even though they have a backup plan when the electricity goes off. “Load-shedding is beyond our control and we are aware that it might affect our system, but our officials are working around the clock to assist our clients. I must also emphasise that motorists must refrain from renewing their driver’s licences on the last day of the expiry date,” he said. ALSO READ: Two lions caught in Marloth Park One of the driver’s licence operators who wanted to remain anonymous, confirmed that the queues at Mbombela DLTC were moving faster, and that the people spent less than 30 minutes inside the offices. “Things are currently going well. People are being helped on time and the system is working properly. However, we can expect more people to visit the centre from Thursday, due to the end of the grace period. The White River DLTC system not working will have an impact on the Mbombela centre’s crowds, because it is the closest,” said the source. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram