A Gauteng family of five were robbed by four unknown suspects on the Numbi Road after exiting the Kruger National Park (KNP) on Monday April 18 at around 15:00. According to a tourist who wanted to remain anonymous, he was travelling with his wife and three daughters when four men stopped their car at gunpoint when they slowed down at a speed hump near Numbi Gate. “They instructed me to move from the passenger seat while one jumped in. The other three tried to open the back doors. Luckily, an unmarked police car stopped behind us and the suspects fled the scene on foot with our phone that was on charge. ALSO READ: No leads in attempted hijacking case on Numbi Road as new cases pile up “After they ran, I drove off, because I did not trust the police since they were using an unmarked car, but they followed us to Hazyview Police Station. We refused to open the case there because I wanted to take my kids to a safe place. “We had to abandon our accommodation. We are currently staying with a friend in Mbombela,” he said.  He said they are going back to the KNP to finish their tour, because they will not allow criminals to stop their holiday in the Lowveld. They will not use Numbi Gate. “We are grateful that we are all okay and alive, because we don’t know what would have happened if the police hadn’t come to our rescue at that time, since my whole family was in the car. I must thank them for assisting. I have opened a case of armed robbery at Masoyi Police Station,” said the tourist. The Masoyi police spokesperson, Capt Nanikie Nonyane, confirmed that the tourist had opened a case of armed robbery and that an investigation was launched. ALSO READ: Meeting addresses crime on Numbi Road She appealed to members of the public with information that could lead to the arrest of the suspects, to come forward. The perpetrators who recently attacked Melani de Beer and two Germans in separate incidents on the Numbi Road have not been arrested yet.  The KNP’s general manager of communications and marketing, Isaac Phaahla, stated that they will not comment on the matter because it occurred outside its jurisdiction and is under police investigation. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram