Some members of the public are of the opinion that the sudden increase in police impersonators has caused a lack of trust towards the police force. Incidents involving criminals posing as police officials and robbing unsuspecting community members have recently spiked. A provincial police spokesperson, Brig Selvy Mohlala, said one suspect in Nkomazi was recently arrested with a police uniform, and on January 20, 15 men robbed Pakistan nationals in Hazyview dressed in police and Hawks uniforms. On February 18, a former reservist in Leandra was found in possession of a stolen firearm and a police uniform. “Being in possession of a police uniform if you are not an officer is a serious offence, and the fact that criminals are using these uniforms to rob innocent people is very worrying. When criminals use our clothes, it compromises our jobs and people will lose trust in the police. We are therefore asking members of the public to always report anyone they find with anything that belongs to the police,” he said. Mohlala said every police official has the responsibility to ensure the safety of their uniform. “They all know that they must always respect and protect the uniform. When lost, they must immediately report the matter.” ALSO READ: Lebombo BorderPost to now operate 24/7 One of the victims, Samuel Silinda of Matafeni, who was robbed in his house by three unknown men wearing police uniforms, said he does not trust any police anymore, because he believes the thugs had got the uniform from a fellow police officer. “When they knocked at the door, I had no choice but to open it for them, because they were in police uniform, and once they were inside, they ordered us to lie on the floor while they took our house accessories and fled the scene. I did not even bother to press charges, because I know they work with some of the police to rob people,” he said. Meanwhile, Sydney Malele said he was searched by two young men wearing police uniforms in Brown Street, Mbombela. They took his money and cellphones and fled on foot. He only realised they were not police when they started to run after searching him. ALSO READ: Limpopo’s conjoined twins pass away