South Africa was superb across the Women’s Cricket World Cup campaign even though they fell agonisingly short. Some stars fulfilled their promise, while other talents emerged during the memorable campaign in New Zealand. Five wins and just one defeat in seven group matches saw South Africa, who was among the top betting tips for the title with Stake, finish second in the table with 11 points, three clear of England in third and three behind Australia at the top. Despite really impressing in the group, South Africa could not translate their form onto the knockout stages, eventually losing to England convincingly by 137 runs. Despite this loss, many women really shone for South Africa, but who were the best? Laura Wolvaardt: 433 runs and five fifties Wolvaardt was supreme with bat in hand across the entire tournament, leading South Africa’s charge to the semi-finals. She had 433 runs in eight innings at an average of 54.12, while she also notched a tournament high five fifties. Ultimately, Wolvaardt’s efforts with the bat were not quite enough as South Africa fell to England at the final hurdle before the final. Indeed, she really struggled in the semi-final, failing to trouble scorers as she was caught and bowled by Anya Shrubsole after just two balls. Despite this disappointment, at only 22 years old, it seems like Wolvaardt will have plenty more opportunities to bat during World Cups. Chloe Tyron: 4 sixes and 100.00 strike rateWhen it came to quick-scoring batters, Tyron was a real go-to player for South Africa. She smashed the most sixes in the competition, recording a total of four maximums. Her ability to accelerate the run-scoring was massive in South Africa’s battle to the last four, and she boasted an impressive strike rate of 100.00.While ODI cricket may not be quite as explosive as T20 cricket, big hitters and players that can accelerate quickly are vital, and Tyron provides both of these hugely valuable assets for South Africa. Shabnim Ismail: 14 wicketsIsmail was in exceptional form across the 2022 Cricket World Cup, taking 14 wickets for South Africa across the tournament. The fast bowler has taken the most wickets for her country this year, and she was in good form in the semi-final loss to England, taking 3/46 in her 10 overs. She would be far closer to top wicket-taker Sophie Ecclestone, had the English star not taken an incredible 6/36 in that semi-final clash. Ismail proved to be the sharpest point of South Africa’s bowling attack across the tournament, ably backed up by Marizanne Kapp and Ayabonga Khaka (both 12 wickets), although Ismail may have missed out on her chance to win the World Cup, with the next one likely too far away for a fast bowler that is already 33 years old.