According to a police report, on Monday at about 12:00, field rangers who were deployed to work at the Houtboshrand Section of the Kruger National Park, spotted some human footprints which signalled possible poachers inside the park. The rangers followed the tracks with the assistance of a tracker dog and managed to corner two male suspects. Police at Skukuza were notified as such and upon their arrival at the scene of crime, the two men were arrested and charged for possession of unlicensed firearm with ammunition. According to the police, more charges may be added as the investigation continues. The pair was found with a hunting rifle with its serial numbers filed off, eight live ammunition rounds, as well as an axe. The suspects were identified as Raydon Zitha (24) and Ernesto Zitha (27). ALSO READ: Kruger National Park field rangers remanded in custody The investigation also revealed that the two men are Mozambican Nationals and had entered South Africa illegally. On Tuesday at around 12:30, field rangers who were posted to work at Tshokwane Section of the Kruger National Park, indicated that they spotted some human footprints in the area and followed the tracks with the help of tracker dogs. They arrested two male suspects who were found in possession of a hunting rifle with four live ammunition rounds and an axe. Skukuza police were once again summoned and upon their arrival at the scene, they arrested the two men and charged them for possession of unlicensed firearm with ammunition and more charges could be added as the investigation proceeds. ALSO READ: Driving Licence Testing Centres (DLTCs) has extend working hours for license renewal The suspects were identified as Maxiyi Hlungwana (33) and Khensani Chauke (26). The probe so far revealed that the two suspects are originally from Mozambique and had illegally entered South Africa, hence a charge of contravention of the Immigration Act of South Africa was added. During their court appearance, the cases were postponed to May 4 for a formal bail hearing while they remain in custody. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram