The chairperson of the Hazyview Chamber of Business and Tourism, Goodman Nkosi, said two German tourists had stopped on the Numbi Road on Thursday night, March 31, at about 18:30 to change drivers after they had exited the KNP’s Numbi Gate, when two unknown men approached them. “The two man were wearing masks, one was armed with a firearm and the other was unarmed. They demanded the tourists’ cellphones, camera and cash, and fled the scene on foot,” Nkosi said. ALSO READ: More than five cops attacked in one week He said there were no injuries during the attack. The tourists were transported back to their hotel and they are reported to be in good condition. Today they are completing their tour of the Panorama Route before heading back to their home country. “I am pleading with the police to always monitor the Numbi Gate road, because it is not the first time tourists have been attacked on it. If this continues, we will lose business, because no one will want to use the road again,” Nkosi said. ALSO READ: Suspects arrested, released pending probe Isaac Phaahla, the general manager of marketing and communication for the Kruger National Park, said they were aware of the attack on these tourists. “They were not harmed during the robbery, and they are all fine now, continuing with their tour today. However, we strongly condemn attacks on tourists. We call on communities in this area to protect them, because both the park and the community are benefiting from the tourists,” he said. The MTPA’s spokesperson, Kholofelo Nkambule, said continuous attacks on any tourist, whether local or international, remains a great concern. “We continue to work together with law enforcement agencies to ensure these hotspots are prioritised and monitored regularly to ensure the safety of tourists. The Numbi Gate has been a hotspot for some time now and we trust that the collaborated effort between various stakeholders, communities and most of all visible policing, will go a long way,” she said. ALSO READ: Wiseman Khumalo reappointed as MM of CoM