BURGERSFORT – The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) said the court case of the R15.3m government tender for the construction of the Burgersfort and Talana Hostel shacks in 2019, is set for trial on June 24. The Limpopo regional spokesperson for the NPA, Mashudu Malabi-Dzhangi, said the six accused, Constance Mohlala, Raymond Nkwane, Thobamotse Jeremiah Makofane, Simphiwe Maphisa, Tsokollo Monareng and Lerato Dikhutso, appeared in the Polokwane Specialised Commercial Crimes Court, on three counts of fraud, corruption and forgery on April 20. “The accused were arrested in December 2020 and are out on bail. Mohlala was granted R20 000 bail and all the other accused are out on R10 000 bail each.
“It is alleged that the accused fraudulently obtained a tender of Talana shacks, by using misrepresentations and forged credentials of land surveyors and architects, while they were not permitted by the professionals to use their documents.
“The accused claimed the amount of over R2m out of R15m that was supposed to
be used for building the 192 shacks and 53 toilets,” said Malabi-Dzhangi. In 2019, the Limpopo Department of Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs (Coghsta) said the aim of the multimillion-rand construction was to alleviate overcrowding in informal settlements during the Covid-19 pandemic. The shacks, erected by the Limpopo government, were being built at Dresden for the communities of Burgersfort Ext 10. Following the public outcry about the amount of money being spent on the shacks, Coghsta decided to halt the project. It was also marred by controversy after it was discovered that the Mikhukhu would not have water supply, ablution facilities and no sewerage infrastructure. “We have suspended it in an endeavour to allow for the investigations to take place. We are currently looking into several allegations levelled against the project. Upon the conclusion of the investigations, we will resume construction, taking into consideration the aspects raised,” revealed the MEC for Coghsta, Biskopo Makamu.