The Our Mbombela movement is gaining more momentum as R100 000 was donated to help the initiative fill potholes around the city. The KLCBT president, Sandra Jacobs, who is one of the founders of the movement, said a local business had donated the large sum to AfriForum Nelspruit and We Care 4 Nelspruit for the sole purpose of fixing potholes in Mbombela. She said the donor wished to remain anonymous, but that the generous donation would further help the Our Mbombela movement in making the town safe, clean and well-maintained.  “People and businesses in the area are really taking the movement seriously, and it has been so wonderful to see how proud the community is of their city and how hard they are working to keep it beautiful and clean,” she said. ALSO READ: Some municipal electricity outages caused by service providers Recently, the Sonpark Shopping Centre adopted the island on the R40 between Sonpark and Hoërskool Bergvlam, to maintain and beautify. In a Facebook post by Sonpark, it said the centre is proud to adopt the island and join forces with Our Mbombela.  The post thanked Stark Ayres for sponsoring flower seedlings and the Sonpark maintenance team for planting the flowers and installing irrigation.  The post also thanked Pro Clean for maintaining this area. “We are proud of Mbombela and would like to encourage small businesses and shopping centres to adopt a spot in their area and work towards making the city clean, safe and beautiful again,” said the post. Another business that recently joined the movement, is Westvaal Numbi Ford. ALSO READ: Residents want urgent intervention at town library “They are doing such wonderful things,” said Jacobs.  Stephan Venter of Westvaal Numbi Ford said the business had adopted the island near Casterbridge Lifestyle Centre that they are busy filling with spekboom and other indigenous plants.  He said they had received permission to maintain the area for the next year.  The company has also decreased its water usage significantly by harvesting rainwater and a bioreactor to clean the water using only river algae and no chemicals. The business is also ensuring that they recycle as much of the rubbish collected at the dealership as they can. Venter, also a member of the White River organisation The Power of 8000, said there were many more plans the business had regarding the movement. Jacobs added that Our Mbombela had held a successful meeting in Barberton on Tuesday March 29, to expand the movement into Barberton and assist community members who have already started projects in the area.  ALSO READ: Bahati Centre, neighbours’ premises flooded in storm Jacobs is encouraging the community and local business to get involved by: • Starting a project in your neighbourhood• Donate money, resources, equipment or labour to a project• Spread the news and get everyone excited and involved using the hashtag #OurMbombela. “Together we can achieve a clean, safe and beautiful city. It is in our hands,” she said. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram