The South African Women Lawyers Association (Sawla) held a meet-and-greet at eBundu Lodge on March 25 as a way to network, support and empower one another. The event started at around 11:00 with esteemed lawyers, attorneys, advocates, paralegals and law students from across Mpumalanga in attendance. The programme director, Nombuso Mabuza, stated that the purpose of the meeting was for students and experienced law practitioners to build a networking platform and support system that will allow all women in law, including the student chapter, in Mpumalanga to flourish in their professional capacity.  Sawla was established with the aim of providing a platform to empower women, to enable their ideas and opinions to be heard in all aspects of the legal system. ALSO READ: Bahati Centre, neighbours’ premises flooded in storm The event hosted speakers Simphiwe Sibiya from the Office of the State Attorney as well as Adv Bikiwe Mkhize from the Office of the Family Advocate who spoke about briefing patterns, compliance requirements, parental responsibilities in terms of the Children’s Act and ways to address and resolve challenges faced by women in the legal fraternity.  “We celebrate the achievements made by female lawyers in both the public and private sectors, and we want them to continue to be represented in strategic and key decision-making positions in society,” said the Sawla provincial chairperson, Adv Buyile Mdluli. ALSO READ: More than five cops attacked in one week She encouraged the women present to be proud of one another’s achievements and to network in order to create a support system and talk about difficult cases, access to justice, what is happening in society and to seek advice when challenges are met. “The change begins with us when it comes to playing an impactful role in transforming our society,” Mdluli said. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram