The White River Animal Hospital recently said on its Facebook page that two dogs had come through its doors with the virus. It said the only way to prevent dogs from getting it, is for them to be vaccinated. “We urge owners to please make sure that your pets’ vaccinations are up to date.” In the same post the hospital provided some more information on the virus as well as its symptoms from the American Veterinary Medical Association.It is contagious and attacks the respiratory, gastrointestinal and nervous systems of puppies and dogs. “Puppies and dogs most often become infected through airborne exposure (sneezing or coughing) to the virus from an infected dog or wild animal (such as jackal, African wild dog, hyena and mongoose). The virus can also be transmitted by shared food and water. Infected dogs can shed the virus for months. ALSO READ: Man shot and robbed at Burgersfort’s Twin City Complex “All dogs are at risk, but puppies younger than four months old and dogs that have not been vaccinated against canine distemper are at increased risk of acquiring the disease.” Initially, the post continued, infected dogs will develop watery to pus-like discharge from their eyes. They then develop fever, nasal discharge, coughing, lethargy, reduced appetite, and vomiting. As the virus attacks the nervous system, infected dogs develop circling behaviour, head tilt, muscle twitches, convulsions with jaw chewing movements and salivation (“chewing gum fits”), seizures, and partial or complete paralysis. ALSO READ: Mozambican arrested for his suspected involvement in Hectorspruit road spikes The virus may also cause the footpads to thicken and harden, leading to its nickname “hard pad disease.” Distemper is often fatal, and dogs that survive usually have permanent, irreparable nervous system damage. The hospital recommended that pet owners check their pets’ vaccination records and contact them to make an appointment to have it updated. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram