After two years of sabbatical due to Covid-19, Samancor Eastern Chrome Mines (ECM) held its long service awards function for 2022. The mine gave recognition to 163 employees for their long service with the company during a glittering awards ceremony held at Winterveld Recreation Club on April 4 and 5. During the first day of the event, the management honoured 11 employees who had completed 40 years’ service with the company. On the same day, 18 employees with 35 years of service with ECM were also
recognised. The events were concluded on Tuesday with 20 employees awarded certificates for 30 years of good service to ECM. The last group to be recognised were the 52 employees who had worked for Samancor for 25 years. As a token of appreciation, all the recipients were handed gifts and goodies as well as certificates. The events were also for catching up with colleagues and friends and for sharing good memories with the staff recognised for their long service. Among the attendees was the management of the mine, led by Bertus Brink, general manager, as well as human resource manager, Pieter Brits, mining manager, Bobby Olivier, and members of organised labour. Brink said they had staff that had stood by them through tough and challenging times. He also congratulated the recipients and thanked their families for their contribution throughout the years. “Today we are here to celebrate and acknowledge the employees’ long and loyal service to the mine. They were here with us during the good and bad times. Nothing is more important to us than our people going
home safely every day.” Brits said they were honoured to be awarding their dedicated and loyal employees. “If it weren’t for your commitment, ECM wouldn’t be where it is today. Thanks for keeping the young workers on track and giving them guidance.” NUM’s representative, Elvis Mhaule, thanked the mine for honouring its employees. “Today, some of the mine employees are celebrating 40 years of good service. NUM is also celebrating 40 years since its inception. The guys being awarded here are loyal, dedicated and hard workers. Some of them
worked for ECM before there were labour unions. We plead for the same dedication from the young workers at ECM.” On behalf of the recipients, one of the employees, Joseph Mashaba, said they were thrilled the mine had rewarded them for excellence and loyalty. “We work in diverse roles and all have a part to play in contributing to the success of ECM as individuals, teams and as a driving force behind operations and functions. We will cherish the awards handed to us and
we are grateful for the support from our management.”