The request was handed in at the Office of the Mayor by Cllrs Marius Opperman and Spiros Couvaras on April 13. “As the DA we experience this misconduct with the urgency and disgust that it deserves, and we call upon you to immediately start disciplinary procedures as prescribed by Sections 5(1) and 5(2) of the disciplinary regulations for senior managers. This matter needs to be brought before the TCLM council. The TCLM council can decide what actions should be taken and it should start the investigation into the seriousness of the matter. The council can also institute the prescribed corrective action. If a special council meeting is not scheduled by April 21 the matter will be handed over to Cogta and the Office of the Premier in Mbombela.” said Opperman.  The request for her suspension follows her appearance in the Lydenburg Regional Court on 11 cases of the alleged contravention of the Environmental Act, as TCLM’s accounting officer. The case against Matsi and TCLM were opened by the Mpumalanga Environmental Affairs, the Green Scorpions, and the Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS), the Blue Scorpions (Steelburger/Lydenburg News Thursday April 15). This case was postponed to Monday June 13. The charges include the contravention of the National Water Act 36 of 1988, pollution of the river in Section 4 and 5 of TCLM and that the pollution wasn’t contained or rehabilitated. “In terms of our Constitution, everyone has the right to an environment that is not harmful to their health or well-being. The National Environmental Management Act 107 of 1998 (Nema) is the overarching law which establishes sound environmental principles upon which all other environmental laws are based,” said Couvaras. “Vandalism and crime are playing a huge role. We would love security guards at the sites to protect the infrastructure. In the meantime, we have appointed the necessary service providers, with a budget of R15m, to fix the water treatment plant,” said Themba Sibiya, TCLM marketing and media manager. 