As families plan their vacations, staycations and pilgrimages for the Easter weekend, the South African National Blood Service (SANBS) is bracing itself to deal with low blood collections at this busy time of the year. Compounding an already difficult situation is the reality that SANBS has been consistently struggling with receiving sufficient blood donations to keep up with the demand in the last six months.  To lend a hand during this difficult period, White River Towing’s Linda Brooks organised a blood drive with the SANBS’ Relebohile Matsimbi at Crossing Centre today, April 13. Brooks said in their job, they encounter the need for blood donations daily with all the accident they attend to. She reached her 77th donation on this day and said for her, taking the time to donate blood is a matter of personal values. It is about being able to do something so small that can mean the difference between life and death – even for a stranger. Matsimbi, in turn, said they greatly appreciate this outside support. It means a lot having an external party motivate the public. The SANBS said in a recent statement that holidays like these are synonymous with low collections when schools and universities close for a break and masses of people go on holiday, thus impacting blood donations from donors.  “While we hope for the best, we anticipate that this year will be no different,” said Thandi Mosupye, the SANBS’ senior manager: marketing, brand and communication. ALSO READ: Two lions caught in Marloth Park “We have, unfortunately, struggled to reach the minimum required levels of blood stocks for several months despite the great support from regular blood donors. “SANBS appeals to current and first-time blood donors to make their way to their closest donation site to give much-needed blood. “Even during holidays, we are required to collect blood and maintain adequate stocks. Our target is at least 3 500 units of blood daily to meet patients’ daily needs. For every day we are unable to achieve this target, our available stock level keeps depleting,” Mosupye added. ALSO READ: Comrades advice from an old hand, Bruce Fordyce If you are in good health and between the ages of 16 and 75, weigh more than 50 kilograms, and lead a sexually safe lifestyle, make your way to your nearest donation site. To find your nearest donor centre, visit www.sanbs.org.za or call the toll-free number on 0800 119 031.