Church Unlimited will host a musical theatre production, CRUX – The Musical, in which professionals in the industry work together with local talent and members of the community in preparing a large-scale presentation for Easter 2022. CRUX was conceived three years ago when the musician/singer/composer, Lizanne Barnard, met  Prof Hans du Plessis on the MSC Musica, where he showed her the lyrics of “Kruis van Liefde” he and Prof Bernard Odendaal had been working on. From there it underwent various processes to become what it is today. The storyline: On the day Jesus was condemned to die on a cross, the Roman governor, Pontius Pilate, not wanting to have the blood of a man in whom he could find no fault on his hands, asked the Jews if they would accept the release of the Jewish anarchist and notorious criminal, Barabbas, instead, but the crowd screamed all the more they wanted Jesus of Nazareth to be crucified. And so it happened that Jesus was crucified on the cross meant for Barabbas. ALSO READ: Woman with dead foetus left unattended in Rob Ferreira Hospital’s casualty Against this background, a fictitious story of Barabbas and the man he became, unfolds. The role of Barabbas will be played by the seasoned actor Zane Meas. The following parties will also form part of the performance: • The Church Unlimited Choir under direction of Wanda Zonke, and the Nocoré Enseble under leadership of tenor Walter Fourie• Solo singers from the region, Regina Mvubo, Lindo Mvobo, Pyjama Shark and Walter Fourie, among others• Etienne Garnett-Bennett’s rock band, consisting of drummer Vinnie Henrico, bassist Angelo Roman, guitarist Pyjama Shark, a keyboard, and Garnett-Bennett on vocal and piano• The Lowveld Community Orchestra and several instrumental soloists from their numbers• Local dancers. ALSO READ: EFF calls for the renaming of the Kruger National Park in Malalane The stage will be designed by Andrew Botha. Church Unlimited in Mbombela will host the show in its new auditorium on April 15, 16 and 17 over the Easter weekend. Tickets are on sale at Que’s Café in Sonpark or at Church Unlimited’s office. Adults pay R120, and children (under 12) and pensioners, R60. Enquiries: 082 447 3827. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram