The KLCBT has secured R2.4m to hire a private security patrol to curb criminal activities committed against tourists on the Numbi Road. The KLCBT chief operating officer, Linda Grimbeek, said it had already finalised the contract with the funders. Hi-Tech Security has been appointed to assist the police with patrols for 12 months, the company will receive R200 000 a month. ALSO READ: Another tourist attack on the Numbi Road “The initiative is part of the stakeholders’ intervention to fight crime in the area, especially tourist attacks. Our plan is to make sure that the gate remains open, because closing it will not solve the problem. Instead, it will affect businesses that are benefiting in the area. We believe that this intervention will assist the tourism sector and the community as a whole,” she said. The spokesperson for Masoyi Police Station, Capt Nanakie Nonyane, said they welcome the initiative since they have a shortage of police officials. The station is prepared to work with Hi-Tech and provide it with the support needed. ALSO READ: No leads in attempted hijacking case on Numbi Road as new cases pile up “We are all aware that the country has a shortage of police officers. Our station is also affected, so with the security guards patrolling the area, it will assist us a lot.  This precaution will not only protect tourists, it will also benefit the community,” Nonyane said. She said the traffic police have come on board to assist in patrolling the area and the Kruger National Park has also deployed some of its security guards too. ALSO READ: Two German KNP tourists held up and robbed on their way out on Numbi Road The perpetrators who recently attacked Melani de Beer, two Germans and Lourens Harmese in separate incidents on the Numbi Road have not been arrested yet. “We appeal to members of the public with information that may lead to the arrest of the perpetrators, to come forward,” Nonyane said. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram