Business break-ins are spiking in the city, according to recent incidents that were reported to Hi-Tech Security Nelspruit. Its response manager, Callum mac Pherson, said the company responded to a business break-in on Tuesday night, April 19, when a burglar had climbed up three storeys to get inside a building. He managed to scale the three floors and went inside through an open bathroom window. I would not have believed that it was possible, had I not seen the burglar’s footprints on one of the toilets on the third floor,” he said. He said the man had escaped with a television and Mac Pherson suspects there might have been an accomplice. “This is not the first time we have encountered a burglar with extreme climbing abilities. There have been one or two other incidents, however, it is suspected it might be the same person. ALSO READ: Mozambican arrested for his suspected involvement in Hectorspruit road spikes Mac Pherson said that open windows, especially bathroom windows, were a prime way burglars entered both business and household properties. “Often, the suspect will climb inside the window and then close it behind him so when security comes out to check the property when the alarm goes off, it appears there are no visible break-in points. Meanwhile, the suspect is already inside the building, disabling the alarm and taking what he wants.” He has urged residents and business owners to ensure windows are closed, especially windows that have wide-set burglar guards. “It is recommended that people set up beams over their windows so they can be alerted to a possible break-in before it happens. It is also advised that people set up cameras on their properties. There needs to be some sort of early warning system,” he said. Mac Pherson added that car break-ins are also still quite high and encouraged people not to leave their valuables in the vehicle. ALSO READ: 11 crocodiles get a new lease on life “There are so many cars being broken into, yet people are still leaving valuables inside, and in plain site of passers-by. “The burglars usually come in their own vehicles and park next to a car they want to steal from. Unless you are in the car they are planning to break into, you will not realise what is going on.” He urged the public to remain vigilant of their surroundings and remember to close their windows, and not to leave valuables in their cars.  Nelspruit’s police spokesperson, Capt Zandile Gqawa, said that businesses are urged to improve their security systems. “They must install alarms, security cameras or hire security service providers,” said Gqawa. “We also request motorists not to leave valuable items on the car seats or in places where criminals can easily see or access. Nelspruit SAPS can be contacted on 013 759 1008 or they can call 10111 to report any crime incidents,” she said. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram