The Numbi Road has been identified as a crime hotspot, as evident from the robbery of two German tourists on Thursday night, March 31. The German tourists had stopped on the Numbi Road at about 18:30 to change drivers after they had exited the KNP’s Numbi Gate, when two unknown men approached them. The two man were wearing masks, one was armed with a firearm and the other was unarmed. They demanded the tourists’ cellphones, cameras and cash, and fled the scene on foot. The tourists were transported back to their hotel, and they are reported to be in good condition. The robbery did not stop them from finishing their tour of the province. The following day they completed their journey to the Panorama Route before heading back to their home country. ALSO READ: Newborn rescued from pit toilet in Ka-Majika Masoyi police’s spokesperson, Capt Nanikie Nonyane, said no arrest have yet been made of the suspects who had attempted to hijack Melani de Beer, who was travelling with her two children on the R538 in Mganduzweni on January 3. “We are currently investigating the attempted hijacking and the recent robberies of the German tourists, and we are pleading with the public to come forward with any information that may lead in arresting the perpetrators,” she said. Nonyane also said they do have police patrolling the Numbi Road on a regular basis, but people need to bear in mind that the police cannot be everywhere at once. Meanwhile, Isaac Phaahla, the general manager of marketing and communication for the Kruger National Park, said SANParks’ mandate on security is within the park, but the SAPS is responsible for security outside the park, and there have not been any attacks in front of their gates. ALSO READ: Two German KNP tourists held up and robbed on their way out on Numbi Road “The attacks on tourists happened after they had left the KNP. We haven’t experienced any robberies in front of the Numbi Gate, but we are pleading for police intervention in the area of concern, because it will negatively affect the tourism industry,” he said. According to the COO of the KLCBT, Linda Grimbeek, the situation on the Numbi Road is devastating for the tourism industry, and it needs serious intervention. “Closing the gate will not stop attacks on tourists, but we need to work on the socio-economics of that area, because 80% of the youth from Numbi or any village close to the KNP will target tourists because they do not have jobs. Until we address the unemployment issue, police or security guards will not stop these attacks,” she said. The MTPA’s spokesperson, Kholofelo Nkambule, said continuous attacks on any tourist, whether local or international, remains a great concern. “The Numbi Gate has been a hotspot for some time now and we trust that the collaborative effort between various stakeholders, communities and most of all visible policing will go a long way,” she said. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram