A series of gate motor thefts in White River and Mbombela have been linked to three locals, who, despite being arrested twice this year, have not yet appeared in court. An investigation by the White River police into the series of thefts led them to a house in Mbombela on February 11, where they found the two men and a woman, aged between 30 and 34. The police also discovered a seven-week-old baby at the house, who they rescued and transported to a safe haven that evening. The White River police spokesperson, Const Funeka Mathebula, said when the police had arrived at the house, the three were high on drugs. ALSO READ: Bongani Bongo trial set for November in Nelspruit Regional Court “Some of the stolen items were found in their house, including gate motors and gate motor batteries, after a string of gate motor thefts in the area,” she said. The three were due to appear in the White River Magistrate’s Court on Monday February 14, however, the matter was not enrolled and was instead transferred to the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court. The three were then set to appear on February 17, however, the woman was released from custody prior to the appearance as there was allegedly not enough evidence against her. ALSO READ: Three men die in accident on N4 Toll Road towards Mbombela On the morning of the appearance, the two men were released. The Nelspruit police spokesperson, Const Bongani Mokoena said the case was not enrolled because the prosecutor had given instructions that the investigating officer will need to carry out. Only once that has been done will the case be enrolled. He said the docket was handed back to the White River police however it was unclear whether the station had received the docket at the time of going to press. One of the men who was arrested is allegedly out on parole and is on the national sex offenders list. He and his two accomplices have been left to walk free for now and cannot be named until they appear in court. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram