“Not all is bad at Rob Ferreira Hospital. Some departments are a shining light in the hospital.” This is how Sabrina Snyders described a recent visit to the hospital to seek assistance with her husband’s wheelchair. “Jacques (61) had a stroke three years ago. This happened in 2019 just after he had returned from Australia where he visited some family. One morning, he didn’t feel too well. Shortly afterwards, he suffered a serious stroke. “Since then, he had to make use of a wheelchair,” said Sabrina. ALSO READ: Suspects ambush CIT van in Barberton, but leave without money After being treated for his stroke at Rob Ferreira, they gave him a brand-new wheelchair. Recently the wheelchair was in such a dilapidated condition that they had to visit the hospital’s occupational therapy department (OT) for assistance. “On February 19, we went to the hospital after 14:00. Over the 15 years since my husband became a patient at Rob Ferreira, we learned that one should not go there early in the morning. “That’s why we went after lunch. Within 10 minutes, we had his file in hand.” Sabrina said they went to the OT department and asked if someone was available to assist. ALSO READ: Newborn rescued from pit toilet in Ka-Majika “A lady came out to speak to us. She had one look at the wheelchair and confirmed that it was unserviceable. There and then they gave him a brand-new wheelchair!” The visit took them less than 90 minutes and they were back home in their Oranjezicht flat in Nel Street.  She said even a visit to the hospital pharmacy to get Jacques’ repeat prescription is a pleasure. Again, they go in the late afternoon, hand the file to the pharmacist, and only return the next day to collect his chronic medication for treatment of a heart disease. “Yes, the staff at Rob experience extreme challenges, but over the years I have learned that we also need to be patient, some days more than others, and then the good days are a bonus. “It is not all doom and gloom at the hospital,” she said. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram