Past TJ Maré, well-known for his community involvement and clean-up operations, had his trailer impounded on March 25 due to a licensing issue. He shared details on Facebook as the matter unfolded throughout the day, making it clear that, even though his documents were not in order, having his trailer impounded was a severe reaction from the authorities; a fine would have been appropriate. Members of the public tended to agree with him, especially since the trailer is used when cleaning and beautifying the city. ALSO READ: Some municipal electricity outages caused by service providers Maré had a meeting with role players, including the senior manager for Public Safety Law Enforcement and Security, TV Mkhabela, on March 29 to discuss the matter and see if a plan could be made to get the trailer back. He said Mkhabela had been very helpful in the matter and the senior manager apologised if there had been any lack in clarity about the incident. The trailer will, however, remain impounded until Maré can present the correct documentation. Mare said, depending on who you believe, getting new documents can take anything between three days and three weeks. This leaves him with a “helluva problem”. Even though he does have other trailers, they are needed elsewhere. ALSO READ: Residents want urgent intervention at town library Mkhabela confirmed that the meeting took place. Speaking to the issue of the severity of the officer’s actions, however, he said he was acting within his rights. “We cannot turn a blind eye to a person that we like. Whether we like him or not, the law is for all of us.” He mentioned that other vehicles were also impounded on the same day. Both parties agreed that the meeting had ended amicably. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram