The Skukuza Regional Court has convicted and sentenced two poachers on Friday April 8, who were involved in poaching incidents in the Kruger National Park. A press statement by a provincial police spokesperson, Brig Selvy Mohlala, said the cases of the two poachers were finalised separately. “The one matter was that of Munandi Mathebula (42), who had entered the park with two accomplices through Kingfisherspruit Section,” said Mohlala in the statement. “On that day, field rangers noticed some human footprints, which suggested that about three people had crossed one of the roads in the section. “With the assistance of a tracker dog, the rangers managed to trace and later corner two of the three intruders. One, unfortunately, disappeared without a trace.” ALSO READ: Suspect of assault on two Nelspruit policemen denied bail The two suspects were identified as Mathebula and Eugene Malungane (36). They were found in possession of a .375 H&H bolt-action rifle as well as 10 cartridges and an axe. The field rangers notified the Skukuza police and the suspects were arrested and charged accordingly. “The case was handled by an astute team of investigators,” said Mohlala in the statement. The men appeared in court and were granted bail, however, they failed to show up on their next court date. The court then issued a warrant of arrest for them. The police launched a manhunt for them. Mathebula was finally apprehended again on June 28, 2021, and his bail was denied. He pleaded guilty in the Skukuza Regional Court and was sentenced to an effective 13 years’ imprisonment for trespassing in the Kruger National Park, conspiracy to commit crime, possession of an unlicensed firearm, possession of unlicensed ammunition, and possession of a dangerous weapon. The court further declared him unfit to possess a firearm. ALSO READ: Environmental law action against Thaba Chweu Local Municipality In the second matter, Cassamo Chauke (59) was sentenced in connection with a case involving poaching. He had entered the Kruger National Park illegally through the Malalane Section on January 19, 2019. Mohlala said the field rangers were alerted to Chauke’s presence when they heard gunshots. The rangers apprehended Chauke and found him in possession of a high-calibre hunting rifle, an axe as well as fresh rhinoceros horns. Mohlala said the carcase of a large bull rhinoceros with its horns removed was discovered. A kilometre away, three more rhinoceroses were found. All three had their horns removed and only one survived, but was later euthanised. The Skukuza police arrested and charged Chauke. Chauke was born in Mozambique, and was in South Africa illegally. Through forensic evidence, it was also determined that the rifle found in Chauke’s possession was in fact used in the shooting of the said rhinoceroses. ALSO READ: Maintenance of Barberton Cemetery under way He pleaded guilty to all the charges, and on April 8 was sentenced to a total of 19 years’ imprisonment for trespassing in a national park, contravention of the Immigration Act, hunting of protected animals in the park, possession of a firearm with the intent to commit a crime, and possession of an unlicensed firearm. The court also declared him unfit to possess a firearm. The provincial police commissioner, Lt Gen Semakaleng Manamela, has reiterated her call for people to observe and obey the laws of the country, including legislation intended to protect and preserve nature and endangered species. “Jointly with our partners in the law enforcement space, we will continue to act decisively without fear or favour against those who break the law. We are glad that the court continues to send a clear message to perpetrators of crime, that those who choose to disobey will be punished,” she said. 