Traffic volumes between Gauteng, Mpumalanga and Maputo are expected to drastically increase over the Easter weekend, according to a recent statement by TRAC. TRAC’s spokesperson, Solange Soares, said in the statement that it would boost its efforts to accommodate the influx of traffic between the two countries and three provinces. Statistics indicate that the Easter weekend is the busiest one of the year on this route, with traffic volumes expected to peak as follows:• Thursday April 14: 12:00-22:00• Friday April 15 (Good Friday): 09:00-15:00• Monday April 18 (Family Day): 09:00-19:00. Soares said TRAC’s N4 Easter Road Safety Awareness and Swift Response Campaign will start on Thursday morning, April 14, and finish on Tuesday April 19. “The first element of the campaign comprises a road safety activation at Alzu Petroport, where TRAC teams will interact with road users, focusing on road safety education to generate awareness,” said Soares.This will take place on Friday April 15. ALSO READ: Pumas run Lions ragged at Mbombela Stadium “Road users will also be afforded the opportunity to enjoy some freebies (including freshly brewed Mugg n Bean filter coffee), while learning more about what the TRAC N4 Route offers, including the TRAC 24-hour helpdesk and TRACAssist.” She said the helpdesk is available 365 days a year and is the communication hub between road users and TRAC’s roadside assistance units. The toll-free helpdesk numbers for South Africa is 0800 87 2264, and the Mozambique number is 800 9022. “The second element of the initiative will see TRACAssist units, which work closely with emergency service stakeholders, stationed at TRAC’s mainline plazas and other strategic points along the route,” said Soares in the statement. “This leg of the campaign is geared to reduce response times to roadside emergencies and incidents. ALSO READ: Kwena Dam dips below 100% “Although TRAC is not responsible for border post operations, it will again work with the management of both the Lebombo and Ressano Garcia border posts to assist with traffic management en route to these international crossing facilities,” she said. Soares said assistance will include the provision of signage and other traffic accommodation requirements. TRAC has also received confirmation that the border posts will operate permanently on a 24-hour basis as from April 12.“In view of this, TRAC urges road users to plan their trips to avoid delays at these international crossings, which are extremely busy during Easter.” Furthermore, the press statement said that all roadworks will be suspended for the Easter weekend, however, construction sites will still be deemed active. “Road users are urged to be cautious and observe related signage when travelling through these areas. A lane reduction at Milly’s will remain in place during this period, to accommodate the construction of the underpass currently being conducted at the Petroport,” said Soares in the statement. ALSO READ: Home affairs receives thumbs up “TRAC once again calls on road users to obey all road safety regulations and be mindful of fellow road users. Disregarding road rules can have dire consequences, including serious injury and death. “With national road accident statistics showing that most automobile accidents are due to negligent driving and poor road user behaviour, TRAC appeals to all those travelling on the route to be responsible and law-abiding,” she said.