BURGERSFORT – Mmatshepo Sekhukhune (38) is a semi-finalist in the Mrs Universe Africa 2022. Sekhukhune is a wife and mother of a young girl. She is a health and safety practitioner, with a BTech degree in health and safety management from the University of South Africa. Mmatshepo is not a rookie in the pageantry world. “I have organised and entered beauty pageants as a teenager in my home town, Burgersfort. I progressed as a young adult to enter other pageants such as the Pretoria Model of the Year in 2005, and now being a wife and a mother, I entered Mrs Universe Africa.” Mrs Universe Africa is a pageant directed by former Miss South Africa 2010, Bokang Montjane Shabalala, with the purpose of empowering women (married, divorced and widowed) and uplifting communities. The competition is well known for its slogan, “Fetch your life or fetch your dreams”.  Mmatshepo said she entered the Mrs Universe Africa pageant after coming across a video on social media about the competition. She said she was also inspired by Prof Mamokgethi Phakeng, the vice chancellor of the University of Cape Town. “She resembles a highly empowered woman despite constraints generally faced by married women. Phakeng influenced me to enter the pageant that aims to empower women faced with the dynamics of marital life, yet pursues their dreams amid such dynamics.” The model is currently involved in various projects, donations and outreach programmes at local schools. “I always engage with pupils at locals schools, offer advice on modelling and careers, and also donate basic needs to them. Guiding and motivating the young ones have always been close to my heart.
“The outreach programme that I am currently doing is themed, ‘Love letter to myself’.
“I am focusing on young children in the rural areas, mainly to help them to first love themselves as individuals, then embrace their unique rural environment with its scarce resources.
“We want them to know that success has no boundaries; they can still succeed even if they come from tough backgrounds.” Mmatshepo mentioned ways in which locals can assist her in reaching the finale and winning the crown. “Firstly, it is by contributing to my fundraising activity and raising the minimum amount of R20 000 by March 4. The money will go towards the organisation and its charity initiatives. The contributions can be deposited in the organisation’s banking account: Mrs Universe Africa, Absa account no: 4101285040, branch name: Cradlestone, branch code: 632005; Mmatshepo Sekhukhune and number 33 as reference. “The second option is by way of voting for me in order to win the people’s choice award and secure a spot in the top 20. For further information on how to vote, people are invited to follow me on Instagram, Matshepo_ Sekhukhune, and on Facebook, Matshepo Sekhukhune.