A painful blow of cancelled events, caused by last year’s Covid restrictions, led to a quiet year for sport in Hazyview. As the levels of lockdown slowly lifted, the community and visitors fully took advantage of the opportunities as they presented themselves. Hazyview Herald looks back at the 2021 highlights of sporting events such as bowling, golf, fishing and karate that took place in Hazyview or involved the community. For bowling, the 57th Nornan Ladies Fours tournament was held at Bungalows Bowling on September 4 and 5. Bungalows were crowned the champs. The team consisted of Marlet Ireland, Diane Sheehy, Connie Fraser and Christie Cross. The tournament had a hippie theme and the best-dressed participants received prizes. Katina Erasmus, Elaine Joubert, Antoinette Naude and Merle Joubert were crowned the winners. When it comes to karate, Hazyview Shotokan Karate Dojo students participated at the New World Shotokan Karate Championship in which they faced dojos from Mbombela, Lydenburg and White River on October 16 in Mbombela. The Hazyview women’s team consisted of four students and the men’s team had 12. Some students achieved gold, silver, bronze and fourth place in the competition. ALSO READ: WATCH: Driver careens into wall of Mbombela law firm on New Year’s Day For golf, the annual Women’s Golf Mpumalanga Open 2021 was held at Sabie River Sun Golf Club on November 20 and 21. Players from all over South Africa participated. Kyra van Kan of Glendover Golf Club played a level par in two of the three rounds on the first day and that was enough to crown her the winner. Anglers achieved excellent results in the 2021 Lowveld Social Series fishing championship on December 5 at Injaka Dam. The much-awaited final had 66 competitors, ranging from young to old. The champions were David Blow and Vikesh Naidoo of Team DNA Venom. For the juniors, Anro Bekker won the title. The local community and visitors look forward to 2022’s sporting events. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram