The former sanctuary manager of the Jane Goodall Institute Chimp Eden, Phillip Cronje, died of natural causes in Mediclinic Nelspruit on January 9 following 12 days in hospital.  Condolences have come in from all over the world as the heartbreaking news spread. Cronje’s sons, Sean and Marc, shared a tribute of their own in remembrance of their beloved father and “one of the greatest chimpanzee heroes”. “Phillip, or Phil as he was most commonly known, was our amazing father and dedicated husband to our mom, Kim.” Their father dedicated 20 years of his life to working at the Johannesburg Zoo, for which he had an incredible love and passion. He later moved on to start and manage the first chimpanzee sanctuary in South Africa, between Mbombela and Barberton.  Cronje’s work at the sanctuary led to the successful rescue and rehabilitation of many chimpanzees from some of the most dreadful and dangerous situations imaginable. This was echoed by his long-time colleague, Eugene Cussons. He said they had heavily relied on each other for the work they did, and this relationship was built on an incredible trust. Cussons will remember him as being friendly and, above all, unbelievably knowledgeable and passionate. His sons said Cronje’s astounding ability to interpret the ebb and flow of illegal animal trade aided in the successful rescue of many chimps. He was content with his contributions remaining unnoticed if it meant the successful rescue of a chimp or the arrest of a poacher.  “Our dad collaborated closely with key strategic partners in tracking and, where possible, foiling the illegal animal trade. He travelled to Germany, Kenya, Rwanda, England, the Netherlands, Cameroon, Sudan, USA, Angola and Central African Republic, all in aid of conservation.” Although to the world he was most commonly known for his conservation efforts, to them he was a loving father and husband who always went out of his way to ensure the best for his family. “Our dad went above and beyond to make sure we were always well looked after. We will always remember the exciting childhood memories of helping him care for a number of wild animals at home.  “There are many memories of sharing our bottles as toddlers with the chimps he was caring for, or their early-morning nappy changes. “We will cherish these fond moments with him, and though he may no longer be with us, we will forever honour the memory of him and how he left this world a better place than he had found it. ALSO READ: Beloved Lionspruit lioness dies “We would like to extend our sincere gratitude to the staff of Mediclinic for their professionalism and exceptional care they had provided to our dear dad. “We would also like to thank Martin’s Funerals and Nelspruit Methodist Church for all their assistance. Thank you to the entire community for all the messages of love and support given to the Cronje family.” Cronje’s memorial service will be held on Saturday at Nelspruit Methodist Church. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram