De Beer and her children were shot at in an attempted hijacking on the R538 in Mganduzweni on January 3. The police are still on the lookout for the two suspects. The family had stayed in Pretoriuskop for almost two weeks before deciding to leave a day early in an attempt to escape the rainy weather. They exited the park from the Numbi Gate and drove towards White River. On their way back to Pretoria from the Kruger National Park, two suspects rushed in, guns blazing, in an attempt to hijack the vehicle. According to the Masoyi police’s spokesperson, Capt Nanikie Nonyane, De Beer slowly drove her loaded car and trailer over a speed bump near a taxi rank in Mganduzweni, 20 kilometres outside White River, when two suspects emerged from both sides of the road and stood in front of the vehicle. “I grabbed my daughter, who sat next to me, and started praying as they loaded their guns and screamed at us,” De Beer said. As soon as the shots were fired, she ignored the heavy weight of her vehicle and sped off. Bullets went flying through the bonnet, tyres and the passenger window. Her daughter, Miah (14), was shot in her right leg. As the car drove off, the suspects continued to shoot at its tyres. De Beer said nine to 12 shots had been fired. A few kilometres later, she had to stop due to the vehicle’s tyres being ripped through, and to attend to her daughter’s wound and to calm down her traumatised son, Marnu (11). A witness, who drove behind them and witnessed the aggressive scene, stopped to help them and called ER24. When the police and emergency services arrived, Miah was taken to Mediclinic Nelspruit. ALSO READ: WATCH: Driver careens into wall of Mbombela law firm on New Year’s Day De Beer had to relive the whole incident when she went on social media to warn others of the dangers on the road to Numbi Gate. “I am grateful that my prayers were heard when we were in the car and that no one got seriously injured. My daughter and son are safe, and that is the only important thing to me,” she said. The community of Mbombela acted and helped the De Beer family cope with the aftermath of the incident. De Beer and her son had to stay in Mbombela as her daughter’s wounds were treated in Mediclinic. Residents and local businesses provided accommodation and resources to the family while they waited for Miah’s recovery. Her wound was treated on the day of the incident, but became infected, and Mediclinic had to attend to her wound once again on Friday January 6. “I couldn’t thank the community enough for their support and help through everything that had happened to us. It is overwhelming to be in an unknown area in a situation where you know no one, but they stepped up and provided all we needed to cope,” said De Beer. The spokesperson for SANParks, Ike Phaahla, stated that they have issued a warning to the public to be extra vigilant when driving to Numbi Gate, and asked the Masoyi police to ensure a safer environment in the area. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram