An association that consists of estate agents and operational principals in Nkomazi was founded by Fine and Country, Century 21 and Pam Golding in December. A meeting for the Nkomazi Property Practitioners was held on December 20 at the Giraffe Restaurant where most of the agents active in Nkomazi attended. The founders were satisfied with the number of agents and agencies that participated and invited Shivon Wiggins as the guest speaker to brief all the guests about the legal framework applicable to Marloth Park. Wiggins has been the chairperson of the Nkomazi Planning Tribunal for the past six years. She explained the historical development of Marloth Park, from its origination to date, and how the Spatial Planning and Usage Management Act led to a new policy framework. According to Wiggins, it is commonly known that all municipalities in South Africa do not have the funds or budget and how it impacts on maintenance and provision of services. In Nkomazi, the local municipality’s budget is a mere 2% towards infrastructure. “Yet this did not signify applications for rezoning may not be made, it is the constitutional right of any person to apply and obtain rights,” she stated. ALSO READ: WATCH: Driver careens into wall of Mbombela law firm on New Year’s Day The tribunal considered applications on merits. Lack of municipal provision implied that applicants had to make provision in their proposals for electricity and water provision. The tribunal has requested the Nkomazi Local Municipality to publish on their websites the latest by-laws, and although it has not been done yet, it could be expected soon. Questions came about the four-month restriction contained in the title deed. Wiggins explained that all owners of land could request the municipality formally to remove this condition from the title deeds. She explained that historically, it has lost bearing, but technically it is in the title deed and should be removed. Many applicants for rezoning do this simultaneously with the application to rezone. The tribunal does not grant applicants more than 50% cover and encourages low density rather than monstrous buildings and does not permit more than two storeys. It was commonly known that Marloth is filled with illegal hospitality practices. Yet the municipality, due to the lack of budget and staff, fail to identify and sanction the transgressors. The attendees were unanimous and suggested the municipality conduct a proper survey and deploy staff or a contractor to discover who illegally conduct hospitality without having rezoned. ALSO READ: 70 bird species identified on outing After Wiggins had spoken to the guests, they agreed that an association was critically necessary for Nkomazi property practitioners and they desired the principals of the agencies operational in Nkomazi, to lead the association. A leadership will be elected from the principals and disclosed later this year. The founders thanked all real estate professionals for their positive participation and an unanimous vote offered to proceed with the formation of this association. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram