A dream came true for the directors of the Kishugu Business School when its doors opened this week. Through Kishugu Training, an academy that offers a wide variety of courses, from wildland firefighting, first-aid training, conservation and tourism, to a driving school, security training and early childhood development, they also envisioned a business school to create a platform for the people of our province to study various courses from diplomas to skills programmes and in return create future business leaders through education excellence. Kishugu Business School (KBS), which opened its doors this month, has an open week from January 24 to February 1. This is your chance for a brighter future at massive discounted rates. Anyone who would like to do a course in accounting and business, paralegal, ICT and digital business or hospitality and tourism, should sign up before February 1 to enjoy 25% discount on your course fees. According to Thomas Varghese, a director of KBS, they aim to be a training and education centre of choice and to create skilled citizenry in our province. “Our students should enjoy affordable courses and at the same time embrace innovation and optimal use of technology and develop human competency,” he said. He continued that the Kishugu Business School will serve those students who wish to obtain a formal qualification and an accredited membership of esteemed and recognised institutes that will allow them to participate freely in the employment market and, more importantly, prepare them to become entrepreneurs for creating employment. This will be done through partnerships with the Institute of Certified Bookkeepers and Accountants, COMPTIA for IT training, and Highfield International for hospitality and tourism. The leadership and management faculty is in discussions with international universities such as the Indian Institute of Management – to have alliance, partnerships and collaborations in the offering of management development programmes. KBS, through its technological and instructional resources will seek engagements with other role players to enhance the standard of employment and entrepreneurship in the province – a research division that would host a pool of knowledge, a pioneering local initiative on business talks – business, innovations, solutions and more. We are proud to announce that the Kishugu Business School also formed a council to give academic, strategic and practical guidance and lead in our course offerings. Profound personalities like Prof John Shongwe, chairperson of the council, Pinky Phosa, William Lubisi, Jyotish Namboothiri and Cornelia Basson, bring their own skillset, knowledge and leadership to the business school. “Kishugu is proud to be associated with leaders in the industry and will be working closely with the council and other corporates in the same industries to place and groom students,” Thomas stated. “We invite everyone who is interested to visit our campus during the open week, enrol in one of our courses and grow in the process for a brighter future,” Thomas concluded. 