This follows after his recent stellar performance at the Khaya Majola Cricket Week. Khaya batted at number three for the Lions u/19 side in Potchefstroom and ended the week with a 52 average. He was also the top scorer for his team against Western Province with 58. Khaya played for Nelspruit Primary from 2011 to 2015 and scored 1 618 runs at an average of 52. In the following year, he started his high school career at Bergvlam where he was quickly noticed by King Edward VII School (KES) in Johannesburg which offered him a full scholarship. His coach from grades one to seven, Albert van Putten, said he always knew Khaya were destined for great things, purely because of his work ethic. “It was only a pleasure to be part of Khaya’s jouney and I wish him all the best for the future at the University of Johannesburg. A big thank you to the late Basie Ueckermann who was part of this success story, and another big thank you to Deon Visser of KES who helped Khaya with a scholarship,” he said. Van Putten added that former Proteas batsman Jimmy Cook also played a big role in helping Khaya with his technique and his mental approach towards the game. ALSO READ: Lowveld grade ones have their first day of “big school” Van Putten believes that Khaya has the potential to follow in the footsteps of KES greats like Graeme Smith, Quinton de Kock, Neil McKenzie and Stevan Cook, to name a few. “I would like to take this opportunity to thank God for the parents He gave me as well as the people and challenges which I have experienced that have shaped me into the person I am today. “I would also like to thank Albert, who is like a second father to me, Ross van Buuren, Warren Daugmore, Adam Bacher, Deon, and many others, for the crucial role they have played in my life and in helping me achieve all that I have. A special thank you to KES which became my home during my high school years and groomed me into the man that I am today. I thank the teachers, sporting coaches and boys,” Khaya said. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram