Members of the public have been raising their concerns and frustrations lately over the shameful road infrastructure and potholes in many parts of Hazyview and surrounds. Roads like the D514 in Kiepersol, the R536 to Sabie, the R535 to Graskop and the R40 between White River and Hazyview had seriously deteriorated in the months leading up to the festive season. As the roads are in a terrible condition, drivers feel unsafe on these routes. Community members have been forced to find alternative ways to reach their destinations. Farmers and community members stated that they cannot wait for the City of Mbombela to repair the roads, so they have taken it upon themselves to do so on several occasions. ALSO READ: SA has unacceptably high rate of skin cancer, says CANSA According to Cllr Ken Robertson of the FF Plus, more than 2 200 potholes can be counted on the Kiepersol Road over a distance of 13 kilometres. “After two failed attempts to meet with the MEC for public works, roads and transport last year, we again will have a meeting to address the provincial roads. We should raise awareness, especially since we are an international tourist destination,” said Robertson. The spokesperson for the provincial Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport, Bongani Dhlamini, said the department is aware of the challenges regarding road infrastructure, and that it would be able to carry out routine road maintenance if resources are not limited. ALSO READ: Health MEC pays Rob Ferreira Hospital a surprise visit Due to storms and heavy rainfall, the department has noted the number of damaged provincial roads. “If a budget is allocated in the near future, the department will consider rehabilitating various road infrastructures,” said Dhlamini. The department asked the public to drive safely and be cautious at all times, especially after heavy rainfall. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram