Every year, some people set goals for the new year. Well, some of those goals are ambitious, achievable and a look from a piece of paper that they are written on they look achievable. If your resolutions rarely come to fruition, it’s time to rethink the way you create goals. With Covid-19 pandemic not going anywhere anytime soon if you plan to work from home next year and you want to be more productive next year than you did this year. You can use this holiday period to turn you little corner at home to a world class “office” for those virtual meetings if you don’t have a clue where to start. Here are 5 tips according to https://www.chubb.com/ to continue your interactions and make work from home fun! ALSO READ: Studio exhibits a year’s worth of creative artwork 1.Show & Tell Showcase your Workspace – After you have settled on your workspace, decorate it if you have the space and compete on who has the cleanest or messiest desk! Introduce your new co-workers. They can be your loved ones or your pet. Bring them to your online meeting with your colleagues! Show your teammates a room in your house you spend the most time in!Breaks – share the breaks that you have been taking e.g. enjoying a vision break by looking out from your balcony or your rooftop. 2. Get Creative Have a theme – Get creative with your meetings by having a theme e.g. Mad Hatters DayPantry chats – Have a separate WhatsApp group / Microsoft Teams chat where people can come on to just chat about anything! Just like how you would if you bump into each other in the office!Play a game e.g. organize a team call, have a drink and have each colleague share three things about oneself, of which two are real and one is false. The others will then make a guess on which one is false. 3. Fashionistas Dress up for your meetings! Your team could have a common theme, e.g., Polka dots, something yellow, sunglasses – use your imagination! Holiday Dress Up – With travelling restricted, we can at least dress like we’re on a holiday, right? Beachwear for a beach holiday? 4. Let’s Eat/Drink Continue having team lunches together by eating together over lunchtime!Have a lunch competition on who can make the fanciest/healthiest lunch to bring to the meeting. Get your colleagues drooling over your food.Schedule a Happy Hour and drink a toast to the week. Work from Home is different, but it can be fun with a cold drink. 5. Let’s Celebrate Birthday celebrations don’t have to stop. Deliver a birthday cake to the birthday girl/boy and celebrate!