BURGESFORT – Three technical high schools in Limpopo that were partnered with by the Anglo American Platinum School Project in 2015 recorded an average matric pass rate of 95,9% in 2021, in spite of teaching and learning conditions being negatively affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. By comparison, the average pass rate for the Limpopo province was 66,7%, and the national average 76,4%. In all, 190 of the 197 pupils who wrote matric at the three schools passed matric, compared to 146 out of 163 in 2020.  The Mogale Wa Bagale Technical High School in Burgersfort recorded a 97,6% pass rate, of which 64,6% were bachelor passes. The Phaladingoe Technical High School in the Mogalakwena area saw a 98,2% pass rate (63,2% bachelor) and the Thekganang Technical High School in the Amandelbult area had a 90% pass rate, with 64% of those being bachelor passes – up from 37% in 2020.  Anglo American Platinum Schools Project, Manager Jill Sesoko said the project’s academic support program provided extra tuition to learners in Grade 11 and 12 in Mathematics, Physical Sciences, Technical Mathematics, Technical Sciences and Engineering Graphics and Design as part of a strategy to build the critical STEM skills required for local economic development.  This support saw an ongoing increase in pass rates in mathematics and science at all three schools, with Phaladingoe increasing their maths pass rate from 42.3% in 2019 to 83,3% in 2021, and Thekganang improving from 70.5% to 87,5% in the same period.  “The project also works with the schools and the Department of Basic Education to facilitate the transition to tertiary and further studies for the learners, so that we can create qualified technical skills in our host communities. The project also aims to absorb learners into different career paths within Anglo American Platinum as we build a modern digitised mining operation,” said Esmé Van Rensburg.  “Those who have done exceptionally well will be considered for bursaries or scholarships to study at tertiary institutions, while other learners will be assisted through the mine’s upgrading program.”  Apart from providing learner academic support in 2021, the project had also helped address additional key issues, including critical psychological challenges faced by learners that are affecting their performance; enhancing educator development, to teach for the 21st century; and equipping learners with life skills required by the future of work, including problem solving, creativity and sports.  The educator development program will be run in partnership with the Wits School of Education and will see educators follow a three-year program to earn educators an advanced diploma in vocational and technical education. The educators will also be supplied with a laptop. The project is also piloting and rolling out an education system, in partnership with the eLearning Directorate of the Limpopo Department of Education.