Casey Jarvis, Jordan Duminy and new captains Christiaan Maas and Christiaan Burke celebrated an emphatic victory on seven under par in the Team Competition at the African Amateur Stroke Play Championship at Leopard Creek on Wednesday. The Team Competition was played concurrently with the first three rounds of the stroke play tournament, with three scores to count in each round. ALSO READ: No arrests yet in R40 accident that killed Lowveld couple The GolfRSA Senior Proteas combined for rounds of 217, 214 and 210 to lift the trophy by 22 strokes. “It was brilliant, absolutely brilliant,” said the team’s manager, South African Golf Association’s acting vice president, Deon Nel, who himself also donned the green and gold for the first time. “What this team accomplished was way beyond my wildest expectations.  “These are a bunch of immensely talented youngsters who treasured the Protea on their chests, and really played for one another and their country. We knew it was a team effort and not every day was going to be great for everyone. It’s a chain with a couple of links; today this one is strong, tomorrow it’s another player. At the end of the day, the team came out on top. We are so proud of them,” said Nel. ALSO READ: President Cyril Ramaphosa reminds the public of the role of SANDF during Armed Force Day in Mbombela Zach Chegwidden, Sam Bairstow and Callan Barrow secured second for Team England on 15-over, while 2022 SA Amateur finalist Rory Franssen, Jack Broun, Stephen Roger and Connor Wilson combined for a 664 total that netted Team Scotland third place. Team Kenya’s Adel Balala, Njoroge Kibugu and Taimur Haider Malik finished in fourth. South Africa’s young junior team – Dan Bennett, Pascal Gunther, Hannes Strooh and Joshua Koekemoer – making their debut in national colours, went through a steep learning curve at the home of the European Tour’s Alfred Dunhill Championship. The quartet combined for a 679 total, finishing fifth overall. ALSO READ: PCA founder embarks on charity ride Matthew Bramford, Tariro November, Michael Wallace and 2021 Nomads SA Boys u/17 champion Keegan Shutte teed it up for Zimbabwe, who finished on 722 in sixth place. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram