BURGERSFORT – More than 1 200 pupils who were supposed to be attending class, were gallivanting the streets of Praktiseer on Friday morning. This was because the gates of Batubatse Primary School had been locked by the support staff. They claimed they had not been paid since December. The protesting support staff included teacher assistants, cleaners and the cooks. “Our last salary was paid on December 15. The principal hasn’t been at the school since the start of 2022, she was supposed to ensure and authorise that our monies be paid but she isn’t around,” said the protesters. The staff said there were no Covid-19 PPE at Batubatse. “We are still in the middle of Covid-19, how can we adhere to the regulations while the school has run out of sanitisers?” they asked. They said Eskom was on the verge of cutting off the power at the school. “We are experiencing so many problems. Soon they will cut off power and water due to non-payments,” they told this publication. They vowed to lock the gates until their salaries are paid. One of the parents, who chose to remain anonymous, said they were concerned as this was affecting the pupils badly. “We plead with the Department of Education to intervene, so that the kids can get back to class.” The Limpopo Department of Education’s spokesperson, Tidimalo Chuene, said the department was aware of the situation. She said the gates were opened on Friday afternoon. “The school has been opened. Learners were all back in class on Monday February 14.” She said the school’s SGB was responsible for payment of support staff and authorisation was to be done by principal “The principal has allegedly been evicted by a group of people (identified as community members) who are not part of the school. The SGB was advised to seek an interdict against the people alleged to be threatening the safety of the principal,” revealed Chuene. To remedy the situation, Chuene said a meeting was held in which both school management team and SGB resolved not to allow the said “community members” into the school, and that they will get an interdict against such people.