Eurowings Discover is the first intercontinental airline ever to start scheduled operations to South Africa’s largest national park. In its first season, between November 15, 2022, and March 25, 2023, Eurowings Discover will fly three times a week from Frankfurt to Mbombela’s Kruger Mpumalanga International (KMI) Airport, with a short stopover in Windhoek. Never before has the destination, which is particularly popular with holidaymakers from Germany, been reached faster and more directly. Eurowings Discover has a strong commercial focus on leisure destinations on the African continent, and the arrival of the airline in Mpumalanga signifies a new brand introduced by the Lufthansa Group to the South African market. Helmut Woelfel, chief commercial officer of Eurowings Discover, explained that they were very excited to be commencing scheduled flights to the greater Kruger National Park region as the first intercontinental airline ever. ALSO READ: Carnivore specialist weighs in on leopard encounter in eManzana “Not only is it a truly unique destination, but it also marks the first South African destination in our portfolio – needless to emphasise the attractiveness and popularity of South Africa among European holidaymakers. “Our booking figures show that travellers from all over Europe are increasingly drawn to the vastness and beauty of the African continent. We are therefore relying on a versatile Africa programme this year and will continue to expand it in the future.” Dr André Schulz, the general manager for Southern and East Africa, Lufthansa Group, said with the introduction of their brand-new flight service between Frankfurt and Mbombela, the Lufthansa Group now offers three destinations within South Africa to choose from. “Connecting people is at the heart of our company values, and by adding a third destination to our South African network, we are able to offer our customers even greater variety and convenience when planning their journey. “We are extremely proud and excited to be the first European carrier to launch direct scheduled flight services to KMI Airport, thus further underlining our support for the restart of tourism in South Africa and our long-term commitment to the region.” KMI Airport’s CEO, Grant Ponting, said they are equally excited on this side. “Germany is one of Mpumalanga’s key tourist markets, and along with all our stakeholders and provincial partners, we are proud of our role in enabling this route development. “This service from Frankfurt to KMI Airport also opens possible onward connectivity opportunities to other domestic and regional tourist destinations for our visitors. We look forward to showcasing our unique ‘Gateway to Mpumalanga’ experience and welcoming our new international guests to the greater Kruger National Park region.” Naturally, the MTPA is also elated about the new development. ALSO READ: Bags donated to schools offer relief to learners “The MTPA delightedly welcomes the fulfilment of the dream of landing our first direct overseas flight from Europe. “This is a game-changing achievement as we intensify the implementation of the Mpumalanga Tourism Recovery Plan after the devastating effect of the Covid-19 pandemic on the tourism industry. “The success and growth of this route depends on the support we give as the government and all industry roll players. We look forward to providing our tourists with a memorable experience of wildlife, scenic beauty, adventure, culture and heritage,” said Johannes Nobunga, the CEO of the MTPA.