The Sabie Tube Race is a mere day away with weekend tickets already sold out. The head organiser, JL Coetzee, said there is a mixture of excitement and nervousness among the organising team, as is the case with any event you put effort into making a success.  Although weekend tickets are no longer available, day tickets are still up for grabs. Coetzee said you can get these upon registration at the venue, Castle Rock Resort. He mentioned that, as usual, they are preparing for some rain over the weekend. “We are going to have BUCO Sabie there selling gumboots and other stuff people might need.” ALSO READ: Dog gets herself into curious situation, Nelspruit SPCA to the rescue Coetzee’s last minute tip to for those planning to attend is to bring an extension cord. There are limited power points, and it is first come, first serve.  Another important role player, Capt Pottie Potgieter from the SAPS Mpumalanga Diving Unit, gave some noteworthy tips to rivergoers. Firstly, when people go down the river, they must try to do so in pairs. This way, there is someone that knows you went in, and that, at some stage, you must come out again. He advised people not to get cheap lilo-like tubes, but to rather opt for something sturdier. There are plenty of rocks that will not treat your unicorn tube kindly.  Sticking to the rock theme, the captain strongly recommended closed shoes, preferably takkies, to protect your feet from the rocks. He said children under the age of 13 as well as adults who are not confident swimmers should wear lifejackets. ALSO READ: Eskom to implement stage 2 load-shedding He also suggested that tubers have contact details on them in some form in case something happens. This will help him and his team to get a hold of someone on his/her behalf. When in the river, he had four important pieces of advice: • Do not panic, simply stand up. The river is shallow enough. • If you are in trouble, shout for help. There are many people around who will hear you.• If you are in a bit of a panic, he reminded that the flow of the river will eventually take you to a slower part where you will be more in control.• When you find yourself in trouble (for example with an injury), get out of the river. There are people to help and who will come and fetch you. Book your tickets for the festival at www.quicket.co.za. Here is the line-up: Friday night:18:00 – 19:00 Dare to believe19:00 – 20:00 Coenie Naude20:00 – 21:00 Spoegwolf 21:00 – 22:00 Francois van Coke22:00 – 23:30 DJ Rademyer  Saturday night:18:00 – 19:00 Hopeless heroes19:00 – 20:00 DJ Scotty20:00 – 21:00 DJ Nax21:00 – 22:00 Van Pletzen22:00 – 23:30 DJ Rademeyer Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram