The recent release of South Africa’s third quarter crime statistics for 2021 have shown some startling results. Local police stations rank in the country’s top 30 for the most number of incidents of different crimes in South Africa. The country’s first and second quarter crime statistics were released last August. The first quarter stretched from April to June 2021, while the second quarter was from July to September. The third quarter was from last October to December. During the release of the third quarter stats, the police also released SA’s 30 stations with the most number of incidents of various crimes. ALSO READ: KNP managing executive leaves Kruger While KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng appear the most on the top 30 lists for various crimes, a few local stations, Nelspruit, KwaMhlanga, Matsulu, Pienaar, Masoyi and KaBokweni have joined the ranks in some incidents of crime. Nelspruit Police Station ranked number three in the country for burglaries in residential areas. In first place was Rustenburg in North West, and at number two was Durban Central in KwaZulu-Natal. While Nelspruit did take the number-three spot, the figures do show, however, that the cases of burglary at a non-residential area had decreased by 23.6% from 2020’s third quarter crime stats. For attempted sexual offences, Pienaar ranked number five with five cases, an increase of 66.7% from the previous year. ALSO READ: DA: Health’s R14bn in legal cases a concern KwaMhlanga also placed placed in the top 30 for contact sexual crimes at number 24. Nelspruit also featured as number seven on the country’s list for property-related crime with a decrease of 23%. It also ranked seventh for burglaries at residential properties, however, there was a decrease of 33.8% from the 2020 third quarter crime stats. For theft out of a motor vehicle, Nelspruit saw a decrease in cases of vehicles 8%, however, it still was ranked at number eight in the country. Masoyi Police Station reported a 100% increase in attempted murder cases and was placed at number 20 in the country KaBokweni reported a 15.9% increase for sexual offences and ranked at number 27. It reported 44 cases 2020 and 51 in the third quarter of 2021. Mtasulu also appeared in the top 30 for robbery of cash-in-transit of vehicles, at number 14. Nelspruit appeared in the top 30 again for commercial crimes and placed 24, with a decrease of 10.4%, in cases from the previous year. ALSO READ: Military takes over the City with festivities Meanwhile, the results for the first quarter of 2021 showed that Nelspruit reported the most cases of shoplifting in Mpumalanga, with an increase of 61% from the previous year’s cases. In the first quarter, KwaMhlanga and Bushbuckridge reported eight cases of abduction, an increase of 300% from the previous first quarter. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram