The Mpumalanga MEC for public works, roads and transport, Mohita Latchminarain, said the department will not tolerate the ongoing interference of taxi associations in the affairs of the University of Mpumalanga (UMP) in Mbombela regarding student transportation. Following the taxis being parked at the university’s main gate causing congestion, the MEC called upon the taxi industry to respect the law, as there is no association that owns public roads. She said that was the reason why these operators were issued with a permission to operate on certain routes in the province, as outlined in the National Land Transport Transition Act. “The safety of the students between their official student accommodation and the campus in Mbombela is the responsibility of the University of Mpumalanga, and as such, the university has a right to source transport of their students to the various student accommodations as per their guidelines. ALSO READ:Alleged rhino horn possession case goes to Nelspruit Regional Court in June “If taxi associations are going to continue to destabilise and threaten service providers of the UMP, the department will have no choice but to revoke their operating licences,” said Latchminarain. The MEC called upon law enforcement authorities to act with a high degree of urgency to restore law and order, and to leave no stone unturned as they make the necessary arrests of those infringing on the rights of others. She further requested the service providers and students to remain calm and to allow the law to take its course. ALSO READ: Woman allegedly killed by father of her child in Calcutta “I want to assure the students that we are going to make sure that peace and stability is maintained. The students have a right to education and nobody must stand on their way while attending classes,” she said. Tlangelani Ubisi, UMP’s spokesperson, stated that the taxis had no effect on learning on campus, but the drop-off area remained a challenge for staff and students who are using the gate, due to the congestion of the minibuses parked there every day. “The area is not meant for parking or taxi ranks, but for those who are coming to drop off or pick up students only. We hope that this intervention by the MEC will assist not only the university, but even the motorists who use the road on a daily basis,” he said.