SEKHUKHUNE – The Limpopo SAPS have arrested 2 534 people in the ongoing Operation Save a Life since the start of the new year. The suspects, aged between 19 and 47, were arrested for crimes ranging from murder, robberies, possession of unlawful firearms, possession of and dealing in drugs, theft, possession of suspected stolen properties, assault and illegal trading of liquor. The suspects were arrested during a week of heightened joint operations conducted from January 2 to 9. In other operations on January 7, six suspects aged between 25 and 48 were arrested in Leeufontein. “The suspects were arrested for conspiracy to commit crime, possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition, attempted murder and possession of housebreaking equipment. “The police recovered a 9mm pistol with three live rounds of ammunition, cartridges of an AK-47, a SANDF uniform, balaclava, hand glove, angle grinders and other breaking-in equipment, as well as three vehicles that had allegedly been used by suspects,” said the Limpopo SAPS spokesperson, Brig Motlafelo Mojapelo. In another success, the Mankweng SAPS have arrested a highly wanted suspect, Tshepo Steven Botabota (28), who was allegedly terrorising communities in the area. “He was arrested in Germiston on Thursday and was brought to Mankweng, where he was positively linked to several cases of house robbery, theft out of motor vehicles, murder and robbery with a firearm. “The crimes were allegedly committed between April and June. He appeared in the Mankweng Magistrate’s Court on January 7. Botabota was denied bail and his case was postponed to February 4,” said Mojapelo. During the operation, the police confiscated a total of 90 735 sticks of illicit cigarettes, 16 dangerous weapons, 13 367 grams of dagga, 20 grams of cocaine, 18 grams of nyaope, 13 firearms, 37 knives andfive stolen vehicles. The Limpopo police commissioner, Lt Gen Thembi Hadebe, has applauded all the members who participated in these operations for their determination to rid Limpopo of any form of criminal activity, and also thanked community members for their endless efforts in assisting the SAPS to fight crime. The operations continue throughout the province.