Constant torrential rain has caused havoc in the Lowveld, leaving many gravel roads in the region eroded. This year’s route at the Van Wettens Nite Race at Kwanyoni Lodge which was held on a Friday for the first time, was no exception. The 17th instalment of the race saw organisers having to change the route, at short notice, to the best route they could possibly find. Yet, runners still had to tread lightly to avoid injury. But this did not deter them as 191 entered the 10km official race and over 260 the family and team/school fun run. ALSO READ: Eastern Storm canter to 10-wicket victory over Mpumalanga Rhinos The fast-out and fast-back route saw the first male runner, Abednego Mashaba from Bella’s Athletics Club, cross the finish line in 32.36 after 10km. He was closely followed by Prince Ndlovu, who finished in 32.49. In third place was Thulani Lekhuleni in 32.52. Zanele Sehohle, also from Bella’s, was the first female to cross the finish line, with Chantal Middel-Bovée from Definition Athletics Club hot on her heels. Nomvula Sithole from LowMed, secured third place. Their times were not available by the time of going to press. ALSO READ: Dress up and support your Pumas this Valentine’s Day at gala dance “Nedbank LVCC Running Club hosted the event and we appreciate the support from local clubs, notably the new club in town, Bella’s, which had a bus of runners who stuck together and finished in fine form. The results also feature a prominent number of Bella’s runners. Well done to them. Water points were manned by Netstar and Reboot and their support of local running is appreciated. “The change to Friday night also proved to be popular with many runners relaxing over the great food on sale by Kwanyoni,” one of the organisers, Beth Bloch said. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram