Learners were once again caught off guard when the police and education officials swept into their schools without warning. On Thursday February 11 it was operation clampdown for two secondary schools in Mashishing and Skhila, just outside Lydenburg. This is part of the Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison’s (DCSSL) School Safety Programme that has been reaching great heights since its implementation in 2021. On Tuesday February 8 schools in Mashishing and Kellysville were searched. Nyaope and dagga were found at one of them. The DCSSL was joined by the Lydenburg SAPS, colleagues from the Mpumalanga of Education, the Lydenburg K9 Unit, SAPS members from the Enhlanzeni District Office, the Hazyview public order policing unit, the SAPS members from the former Acornhoek cluster, the provincial traffic department and local emergency services. This operation aims to promote safety and eradicate bullying in schools. According to Moeti Mmusi, the DCSSL spokesperson, MEC Vusi Shongwe has identified problem schools in the province. “The department and other role players will continue with random school visits in Thaba Chweu Local Municipality and the Gert Sibande, Nkangala and Ehlanzeni districts. The MEC urges learners not to bully each other and to protect each other. He was shocked by a bullying incident in eMalahleni last week. As a department, we want to work with the schools to support them to eradicate crime in schools. We are also in support of the adopt-a-cop programme that is already in place at schools. We condemn drug use in schools and hope these random visits will help to keep the criminal element at bay,” said Mmusi. “The operation was successful more so on the visibility of different disciplines working together and the fear of unruly children who were not expecting the operation at their school. Management of the two schools appreciated and welcomed the initiative and requested follow-up operations as their learners are getting out of hand,” said Capt Kaizer Moela, the Lydenburg SAPS spokesperson.