President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Armed Forces Day the country remembers the servicemen of the South African Native Labour Corps who perished during the sinking of the SS Mendi in the English Channel on February 21, 1917.  This was during the annual commemoration held in the City of Mbombela in Samora Machel Drive on Monday February 21. As the SANDF’s commander-in-chief the president went to the Barberton World War Memorial site to lay a wreath in commemoration of the victims of a naval tragedy before he gave his speech.   “We honour all the men and women in uniform who have lost their lives in the line of duty, at home and on external operations. Today, we pay homage to Corporal Tebogo Radebe, who was killed in Cabo Delgado late last year during a deployment as part of the SADC Mission in Mozambique. The entire country owes a debt of gratitude to his family for having selflessly shared him with us so that he could fulfil his patriotic duty to serve the country of his forebears. We remember all our soldiers who have fallen in the line of duty in the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Central African Republic and Sudan. These gallant soldiers died in the cause of peace and freedom for Africa.”  ALSO READ: Burgersfort Toyota celebrates its 60 years The day that is commemorated annually, is aimed at showcasing the capabilities of the SANDF, and it pays tribute to the bravery and sacrifices of the men and women in uniform. Armed Forces Day was made official in 2012. Ramaphosa said over the past year, in conditions that were difficult, demanding and unprecedented in our democratic history, the men and women of the SANDF had served this country with the utmost distinction. “It is now two years since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic.   They were there assisting with the implementation and maintenance of the National State of Disaster in the early weeks and months of the pandemic. It is seven months since parts of South Africa experienced the worst unrest in our democracy’s history, leading to loss of life, destruction of infrastructure and devastation of businesses.  ALSO READ: Vaccinate your pets against rabies  They were there assisting law-enforcement agencies to restore order and protect key economic infrastructure. When our parliament was engulfed in fire at the beginning of this year; it was our personnel from Air Force Base Ysterplaat Military Aviation Rescue and Firefighting Services who were part of the first responders to douse the flames. In the neighbouring Mozambique, a cyclone caused flooding and devastation. “ Read more in the print edition.