Following a career and after a life-threatening experience, the brave traffic official, Knowledge Sinqobile Mkhabela, still dreams of safer roads for everyone. Mkhabela, who was hit by a truck while conducting traffic on the N4 between Hectorspruit and Komatipoort, in August 27, 2021, told this paper that he is ready to serve once again. Even though his right leg was amputated following this horrendous accident, Mkhabela said building safer roads for all motorists and pedestrians had always been his dream and it is the only reason he is returning to these dangerous roads to make a difference. ALSO READ: Security at i’langa Mall stops 4 criminals who robbed businesses “I started working as a traffic officer in 2014. The day I had the accident, I was on duty controlling traffic on the road. I was hit by a truck, while trying to control traffic on the N4. The accident resulted in my losing my right leg. I am now using a prosthetic leg in order to walk properly,” said Mkhabela. He said, “It was and still is a very painful and heart-breaking experience in my life, but with the support I get from my colleagues, friends and my family, things seem easier and better. I kept going because of this support structure in place.” He said he is grateful to be alive and the thought of leaving his children behind while they are still young, would have broken his spirit, even after death. ALSO READ: Leopard leaves man with scratch after bizarre camping incident in eManzana “There’s some much more to look forward to in life. I have to soldier on. I am going to continue working as a traffic officer and continue to keep the people of my country and province safe on our roads. This incident and experience made me look at life at a different perceptive and I always thank God that I am still alive to serve his people,” Mkhabela added. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram