The Lydenburg Mashishing Business Chamber (LMBS) is taking up the challenge to make a difference in the town. André Hanekom, administrator: LMBC, writes: Our pilot project this year is a cleanup, which is off to a flying start. Marked improvements at the Dullstroom entrance and Viljoen Street can be seen. The chamber will be engaging with Thaba Chweu and other stakeholders on a continuous basis to get the terrible state of the town’s roads fixed. Furthermore, we will be putting pressure on local governance to make the relevant changes to maintenance and repairs for local businesses to prosper, which will contribute to decreasing unemployment and creating hope for people in this area. There will be constant communication between us and them as well as with the community. However, to achieve these goals, we need your support, as there is strength in numbers. In order to encourage and make membership affordable to all business partners, we have decided not to increase our membership fees for this year and really want you all to join us to make a difference. Our registration form changed in accordance with the POPI Act. Complete and email it back to us. An invoice will be issued with the required details. There is also an option added for members who don’t want to join, but want to be added on our mailing list. What is the chamber’s active role in our local businesses? We are in constant negotiations and communication with our local municipality and other stakeholders to ensure the voices of the local businesses are heard. Several meetings and interaction made things easier with service delivery issues that were hindering businesses from functioning properly. This is where the number of members plays a big role to ensure the impact in our community. We are still in communication regarding the trade licences from the local municipality, the infrastructure as well as service delivery. More feedback will be given regarding these in the future. We also attended meetings and joined up with the team that will be dealing with the roads outside Lydenburg, which are influencing our local businesses as well as tourism. Your business will benefit from marketing on our social platforms, our webpage, as well as GrowSA, with your permission, according to the abovementioned act. Hopefully, we will be able to have meetings again in the near future for special occasions and speakers to inform, motivate and teach. We have also been communicating our concerns on television as well as radio, with great results. We are also proud to announce that the PRIDE project has done well last year and we will be doing more in 2022. The slogan was “It might not be my job, but it is my pride”. Join the LMBC Facebook page or WhatsApp group, or visit the website, www.lydenburgbusiness.co.za. For more information, contact André Hanekom on 084 688 5007 or email admin@lydenburgbusiness.co.za.