From all of the tributes that have streamed in for Bradley Sprackman, there exists no doubt about the impact he had had on those around him. Following his passing on January 18 due to multiple organ failure, people have been sharing their fond memories of him. Time and time again, the same characteristics were highlighted: his astounding empathy and care for others, and his dark and witty sense of humour. His mother, Linda Barnard, noted his naughty giggle and witty replies and at the same time the amount of lives he touched “with your soft brown eyes”. “Babe, how must we carry on without you? I’ll treasure every moment with you and will thank God for making me your mum forever.” Some family members also mentioned his brutal honesty; this, along with the humour was well represented at his memorial last Thursday, his stepsister, Stacey Amorim Gryvenstein, said. Although there were tears, there was laughter as well, as he would have wanted it. His brother, Lee, mentioned in his tribute that Brad was the author of his own book of life and never asked or needed anyone’s approval. ALSO READ: Public urged to use water wisely despite improvements in Mpumalanga water levels “On reflection and in the concluding chapter of his book, Brad needed to consider whether it would be better to go to heaven for the climate or hell for the company… “Let’s face it, Brad was a b*tch, but he was our b*tch.” Many locals knew him for the hairdresser he was at various salons including Gary Rohm, Purple Moss and others.Amorim Gryvenstein mentioned that he would even pack a little bag and come and do your hair at home if you were unable to make it to the salon. And without having transport – but he would make a plan. “He cut more people’s hair for free than those he let pay. He would really give you the last R5 out of his pocket.” ALSO READ: Make sure your Sabie Tube Race rocks with safe tubing She said she will always remember a saying he had when it came to hair: “It’s called a comb, not a magic wand!” Although he is no longer here, people will always remember how he would light up a room and at the same time make you feel like the most important person in it. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram