Remember the Peugeot 404 wagon and 504 pickups of years ago? These were robust and tough as nails, and now the memory of those legends will move forward into the next century through the latest incarnation of the Peugeot Landtrek. This is available in 4×2 and 4×4 diesel double-cab configurations, also boasting a three-tonne towing capacity and one of the most accommodating cargo beds in the bakkie market.  I took the Frenchman for a short drive and coffee to Sabie and back. The Landtrek is large and bold with a six-pack design that drew many stares. Yes, it is bold and masculine and in my mind, fits the bill for the executive bakkie rather than being a farm and gravel road warrior. But then, the future may well prove me wrong, and I do not doubt of the Frenchman’s ability off the tar at all.  The interior is large and spacious, and truly luxurious. The front seats are wide and comfortable, while the rear boasts modular seats that offer a 60/40 split. Some of the luxury technology features include advance connectivity, a 10-inch HD touchscreen compatible with Apple CarPlay and Android, and a 10GB hard drive.  A tad peculiar, but not at all disruptive, is the odometer showing speed on the left and the rev counter on the right of the screen in front of the driver. The controls for adjusting the side mirrors are behind the steering wheel and quite low on the dashboard. Awkward, but then, one should never adjust these while driving, anyway. Safety is ensured by six airbags and an electronic stability programme. This includes hill descent control, hill start assist, trailer sway control and lane departure warning, depending on the model derivative. Power and performance The 1.9-litre turbodiesel develops 110kW and 350Nm thanks to variable turbine geometry with 16 valves. Not another 2-litre? Why not? Other brands’ 2-litres have proven all critics wrong, and the Landtrek is most probably going to do exactly the same.  Power is directed to the wheels via a smooth automatic gearbox. For 4×4 versions, the rear differential is equipped with a mechanical rear differential lock, providing extra traction when one wheel slips. The BorgWarner transfer case allows for easy transfer between 2-high, 4-high and 4-low modes with the simple turn of the rotary switch.  Driving experience It is quiet and comfortable. Stepping on the accelerator will generate smooth up- and downshifts, generating a non-aggressive but immediate response. Fuel index for my round trip and sticking to the set speed limits was 10.8 litres/100km – this on a brand-new and still stiff engine – which is not better or worse than most other bakkies in this segment.  Pricing • Allure Double Cab 4×2: R579 900 • 4Action Double Cab 4×4: R669 900 This includes a five-year/100 000km warranty and service plan with maintenance intervals every 10 000km. Conclusion Although it may be French by design and quite well-rounded, its performance and durability will prove it much more than a baguette…  Photos: QuickPic and Matthys Ferreira Details: • Tel: 013 757 5001 Email : thembam@westvaal.co.za Whatsapp: 072 092 8218 Click here to visit our Facebook page