Casey Jarvis continued to stamp his dominance on the African Amateur Stroke Play Championship after a brilliant third round of four-under-par 68 that saw him race clear of the chasing pack with 18 holes to play at Leopard Creek Golf Club on Wednesday February 16. The defending champion began the day on nine under par, two shots ahead of fellow GolfRSA National Squad member Yurav Premlall and Englishman Zach Chegwidden. ALSO READ: PCA founder embarks on charity ride He quickly established himself as the man to catch with birdies at the second, fourth and sixth holes, and redeemed himself after a bogey on the 10th with an eagle on the par-five 13th. “Overall, I am playing well and scoring well, and minimising my mistakes. I still feel like I could be holing more putts, though,” Jarvis said. “I missed a few makeable ones this week, but I’m not getting hung up on that. I am playing really well, and shooting another low score out there today really helps to build confidence and keep the momentum going in the right way.” The 18-year-old State Mines golfer was pleased to keep his title defence on track with his outstanding level of performance, but is fully aware that even a four-shot lead of 13 under par cannot be taken for granted. ALSO READ: No arrests yet in R40 accident that killed Lowveld couple Realising he was about to be left behind, Yurav racked up a brace of birdies on five and managed to hold onto the leader’s coat tails with two more on the ninth and 11th holes. He picked up one more shot on the par-three 16th, but three bogeys in the last five holes saw him finish the day on nine-under, four shots back. “I played solid, especially on the front nine, but I made a few costly mistakes on the home stretch,” said the 17-year-old Glendower junior and runner-up of last year. “I will have to do better to try to keep a clean card if I want to gain some shots on Casey in the final round.” It might look like a two-horse race between Jarvis and Yurav for the title, but neither player fired the low round on the day. ALSO READ: President Cyril Ramaphosa reminds the public of the role of SANDF during Armed Force Day in Mbombela That honour belonged to 17-year-old Aldrich Potgieter, who was ranked the number-six junior in Australia last December before the family relocated back to South Africa after a nine-year stint Down Under. The Louis Oosthuizen Junior Academy member fired a blistering seven-under-par 65 that featured no less than 11 birdies to rocket to third on seven-under. Jonathan Broomhead signed for 67 to finish in fourth on five-under, with South Africa’s number-one-ranked Christiaan Maas and Robert Moran, who both carded rounds of 66, a further shot adrift. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram