The family of Tebogo Mabunda, who was shot and killed by her ex-cop husband, Mugiyo Ulrich Mabunda, are relieved that justice has been served at last. The Mpumalanga Division of the High Court passed a premeditated murder conviction against Mugiyo on Friday June 24. The victim’s sister, Kgopotso Matuwe, said it felt like the trial was weighing down on their shoulders. She said she can still remember that on the day her sister was shot. Her 14-year-old son had called them and said, “Daddy is killing Mummy!” She said as a family they know the conviction will not bring back their loved one, although they finally see justice after the recent appearance. “We previously raised our concerns about the delays of the case, because they kept postponing and we felt as if justice was being delayed.”  Matuwe said they are now relieved that the murderer is behind bars. “We welcome the judgement and we hope he gets a life sentence. After this journey of fighting to get justice for my sister, we can now start with the healing process.” After the judge’s verdict, Tebogo’s family and friends had mixed emotions; some shouted with joy and others were crying.  Outside the court, as with previous court sessions, family, friends, the National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union, the Mpumalanga ANC Women’s League and Bella’s Athletics Club picketed in support of the victim. ALSO READ: Response teams recover stolen courier parcels in Masoyi within hours Mugiyo was not present in court when Judge Cassim Moosa found him guilty.  This was not the first time Mugiyo did not appear for a court session. On October 11, 2021, the case was postponed to October 13 as the accused was said to be ill and unable to attend. The Mpumalanga NPA’s spokesperson, Monica Nyuswa, said the matter was postponed to August 12 for sentencing in the same court.  “The accused was convicted in absentia. His bail was cancelled and a warrant of arrest was issued for him to be rearrested.”  Mugiyo had been granted R10 000 bail during one of his many previous court appearances. He pleaded guilty on October 8, 2021. His defence attorney, Adv Johann de Necker, read a statement by his client in front of Judge Moosa. The statement read, “I was a police officer for eight years and had been married to my wife for 10 years. On the day of the incident, my wife received a phone call which she answered outside. I was surprised, as she usually takes her calls in front of me, but to me it was clear the conversation was not meant for me to hear. I went outside to hear who she was talking to and she quickly dropped the call, but I had already heard that she was speaking to her boyfriend. That caused me a lot of anger. I fired several shots at my wife and tried to end my life by firing shots at myself, too.  I request a minimum of 15 years be imposed on me.” ALSO READ: White River K9 Dakota and his dogged determination save lives The state prosecutor, Moeng Molatudi, said this plea was rejected and requested that another witness be called to the stand.  The trial continued and Tersia Marshall, the deceased’s attorney, took the stand.  In her statement, she said on the day in question Tebogo had been talking to her over the phone when she suddenly heard two loud sounds and the call ended. “While talking to her, she said her husband attempted to assault her again. After the call was cut off, I tried to call her back, however, the phone rang unanswered. I also saw a message in one of the local groups that I am a member of (because I am also a ward councillor), stating that they had heard gunshots in their neighbours’ home. I then got into my car and drove to Tebogo’s home. That is when I was told she was shot,” she said. This witness also stated Tebogo had been planning to divorce her husband. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram