She was killed on December 23, 2018. Cheema fired his legal represen[1]tatives more than seven times, and ended up representing himself. “During the trial, Raza Ali, a friend of the accused, was called to testify as a state witness. Ali told the court Cheema had communicated with him about his problems with the deceased. Later, on December 23, 2018, Cheema confessed to Ali that he had killed the deceased using a knife,” said the Limpopo spokesperson for the National Prosecuting Authority, Mashudu Malabi Dzhangi. “Cheema further asked the witness to bring five refuse bags. He confessed that he had dismembered the body, placed the body parts in the refuse bags, and drove around disposing of them in the Lydenburg mountains along the R37. “Cheema contacted Ali again, wanting his help to bury the deceased’s head and hands in the Mashifane Park’s sports grounds. The DNA proves that the body parts belong to the deceased. Cheema pleaded not guilty to all these offences and the court found him guilty as charged.” In aggravation of sentence, the state advocate, Nkhetheni Munyai, said murder is a serious offence. He said the accused was not remorseful for his conduct. He said this has caused a huge impact on the family, as they were unable to have a funeral for their loved one because the body parts had not all been recovered. “Cheema further asked the witness to bring five refuse bags. He confessed that he had dismembered the body, placed the body parts in the refuse bags, and drove around disposing of them in the Lydenburg mountains along the R37. “Cheema contacted Ali again, wanting his help to bury the deceased’s head and hands in the Mashifane Park’s sports grounds. The DNA proves that the body parts belong to the deceased. “Cheema pleaded not guilty to all these offences and the court found him guilty as charged.” In aggravation of sentence, the state advocate, Nkhetheni Munyai, said murder is a serious offence. He said the accused was not remorseful for his conduct. He said this has caused a huge impact on the family, as they were unable to have a funeral for their loved one because the body parts had not all been recovered,” said Munyai. Munyai said the deceased had two children who will never see their mother’s grave. He urged the court to impose a life sentence on the murder charged. During sentencing, Judge President Ephraim Makgoba said the accused was convicted of a serious offence, which falls under gender[1]based violence, which is a serious problem in this country. He further said that in imposing the sentence, the court will take into account the personal circumstances of the accused, the nature and seriousness of the offence and the interest of the society. The court sentenced Cheema to life imprisonment for murder, two years for theft and five years for defeating the ends of justice. The sentences will run concurrently. The Limpopo National Prosecuting Authority welcomed the sentence and the director of public prosecutions, Adv Ivy Thenga, commended the good work of Warrant Office Patrick Pila and Munyai.