Load-shedding and rising diesel prices are causing serious distress within the farming environment. Our harbours are not functioning optimally, and this puts more strain on the production and supply chain as exporting goods and surplus products, which can generate income, are inhibited. In tough situations like these, farmers, more often than not, create a plan B.  One such farmer is Johan Strydom of Fiesta Farm just outside White River. An avid former vegetable farmer who also owns a guest house and who feels the pain of not being able to do what he loves anymore, will present the Citrus Festival on his farm over the weekend of July 29 to 31. “I gave up on vegetable farming because in small-scale farming (vegetables in particular), given all the other challenges such as constantly rising input costs (diesel, labour and so forth), profitability is just killed outright. One has to scale up to make it profitable. So we identified the need for a platform where farmers can network regularly to expand their knowledge.  “Our farmers are under pressure. We need to connect, join hands, consult among ourselves and find solutions and ways of helping one another,” said Strydom. “This Citrus Festival will present to farmers and locals alike not just many recreational activities, but agricultural equipment and implements on show by various organisations. They will also provide farmers with information and advice on crop optimisation, seedling development and many other related matters. This will expand knowledge and also provide an opportunity for creative discussions that will, we hope, produce solutions and new motivation despite the many challenges we face.” One highlight will certainly be the Ineos Grenadier 4×4 vehicle, which will be on display. Test drives will be allowed. Leisure activities will include competitions, local artists on stage, a beer garden, a KTM bike display, the ClemenGold Colour Splash Fun Run, local food fundis, a Master and Miss Orange Pageant and much more. Everything is by the community for the community, and it will become an annual event. More similar but differently themed events are planned for the rest of 2022. 