The concept of the support group has grown over the years, and it has become a full organisation in 2021.
Rev Anna Thandie Williams, St John’s Anglican Church Mashishing, founded the group to empower widows. Chantell Williams, the programme director, welcomed Makhosazane Masilela, the speaker of the Mpumalanga Provincial Legislature, Friddah Nkadimeng, the executive mayor of Thaba Chweu Local Municipality, Pr Jane Sekhukhune, Pr Thandie Dikhali and about 80 widows of various church denominations.
Makhosazane Masilela delivered the keynote address. She also became a widow at the age of 26 and shared her journey with the guests. The first message of support was given by Bruce James, chairperson of the Gophers Charity Golf League. The Gophers donated much-needed T-shirts with biblical scriptures for the group in 2021 after an article in Steelburger/Lydenburg News. The second message of support was given by Molta Mavuso, the provincial manager of the Commission of Gender Equality. “I was a widow at the age of 31 and had three young children. The youngest was only one year old. Life became very difficult. I held on to the Bible verses, Psalm 68: 5 and Isaiah 54: 5, which says God is the defender and protector of widows and the father to the fatherless,” said Rev Williams.
She was a lay minister in the Anglican Church in 2007. She registered at the Theological Education by Extension College in 2011 for theological courses. She then obtained a diploma at West Coast Bible College and got her master’s degree in theology at the same college. In 2014 she was ordained as a deacon and a priest 2016. She is also officially registered and licensed as a marriage officer with the Department of Home Affairs. A widow and group member, Bessie Mlangeni, shared how much she has benefited spiritually from the group since its establishment.
Anyone who wishes to support the Widows Spiritual Support Group financially and otherwise, or who wishes to offer some funding, can contact the founder and vision bearer, Williams, on thandieanna@gmail.com. Photos: Bongani and Thando Mashisane.