Pediatric Care Africa (PCA) recently held its second-ever charity golf day at White River Country Club. PCA founder Dr André Hattingh said that the lifting of Covid restrictions enabled the non-profit organisation to hold a golf day fundraiser event.  “Thank you to all the companies that sponsored holes on the course, namely Century 21, Busamed Lowveld Private Hospital, Mbombela Auto Care, Sizabantu Piping Systems Mpumalanga, The Cactus Foundation and Skankane Transport,” said Hattingh. “Furthermore we would like to thank all the golfers for making a contribution towards our day and making a difference in the lives of many children.” ALSO READ: WATCH: West Acres residents escape gunmen The event was held on Friday July 1 and Hattingh said they had the perfect winter weather which made for ideal playing conditions and 85 golfers teed off on a windless golf course. “The ladies team was an absolute pleasure to be around and have on the golf course. Great sense of humour, awesome sports and I cannot imagine a golf day without them.  “Our main sponsor – The Lowveld Motors Group of Audi & Volkswagen dealerships had a big role in our PCA Charity Golf day and displayed some of their newest vehicles,” said Hattingh. “Adele du Plessis, the dealer principal of Audi Mbombela, deserves a special mention from us for her very kind contribution and support.” He said Trinchado’s Restaurant provided delicious food for all the golfers such as burgers, wraps and pizza for dinner.  “After dinner we had a prize giving with some great prizes for the players to take home. Thanks to Rehann Coetzee who was our MC for the evening.” “And finally we got to the main fundraising event of the evening, in which there were a number of exciting items on auction, ranging from Nguni skins to antique furniture displayed by Kraaines in White River. “To thank everyone for a day like this will take pages of writing, but I cannot end without thanking Lee Melman, our corporate fundraiser, who arranged this very enjoyable and successful golf day, and to all the golf players who came out in force to support us.” The sponsors for the prizes were the VW Group and Audi Mbombela, Netstar Nelspruit, Skankane Transport, Kiaat Hospital, Busamed Lowveld Hospital, Rooikat Liquors, Rooibaard, Louisiana, DBV Golf, G-shed and Mario’s Butchery.