Making Contact: A K9 Conservation Series is a five-part miniseries celebrating and profiling K9 anti-poaching units in South Africa’s nature reserves. The series was created by Hill’s Pet Nutrition and launched on July 11.  “Ninety-five percent of our poaching arrests are made with the help of tracker dogs,” said Johan de Beer, the K9 manager in the Kruger National Park (KNP). Today, Hill’s Pet Nutrition sponsors over 46 dogs in the K9 unit in the KNP, two in Hluhluwe-iMfolozi Park and 14 in other parks around the country.  “This heart-warming series not only recognises the amazing role these dogs play in protecting our natural heritage, but also their incredible handlers who, through their commitment to working with the dogs, are making a real difference in the fight against poaching,” said Dr Guy Fyvie, veterinary affairs manager of Hill’s Pet Nutrition. The series tells the personal stories of five of the dogs and their handlers; of the companionship, perseverance and connection between them, and the important link with our natural environment.  It also raises awareness of the key organisations, protected areas and individuals on the ground that are all working together to protect our natural heritage. ALSO READ: Mob justice for alleged stokvel “There are substantial costs involved with training, feeding and looking after the health of the K9 unit dogs and Hill’s Pet Nutrition has proudly been sponsoring the units with food, equipment and healthcare for the last decade,” said Fyvie.  De Beer said this generous ongoing donation is a great help in training and maintaining these dogs so they can perform at their very best. “We hope that by highlighting the work these dogs are doing, South Africans will help us to keep paws and boots on the ground and expand our K9 units.  “The K9 anti-poaching unit is considered a game changer for SANParks,” said De Beer.  Since its inception in 2012, the KNP’s unit has grown from three dogs to 46.
Following great success, the project was extended to other national parks, with a total of 60 dogs now working around the country. “Well-trained dog breeds such as the bloodhound, Belgian Shepherd and Malinois are perfectly suited to track poachers and to detect firearms, ammunition and wildlife products that enter and exit through park gates,” said De Beer.  The full series can be viewed by visiting www.hillstransforminglives.co.za/making-contact. ALSO READ: Emotions overflow as deadly bridge on R37 is discussed Together with Hill’s Pet Nutrition, South Africans are being called upon to help keep paws and boots on the ground by donating to the K9 anti-poaching units.
Donations can be made at www.sanparksvolunteers.org/k9-project-watchdog-donations-form with all proceeds going to SANParks’ K9 unit and Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife’s K9 units. “Helping to protect and conserve our planet and wildlife is of global importance for Hill’s Pet Nutrition. The wild areas and their inhabitants are where we go to keep our spirit alive, and these need to be conserved for generations to come,” said Fyvie. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram