This was officially handed over to the beneficiaries on Friday July 1. The project enabled the installation of electrical infrastructure and connecting these homes to the national grid. Homeowners in the village of Makgemeng now have access to electricity by means of a prepaid system. During the course of this project’s implementation, 20 people were given job opportunities. The transferring of portable skills also occurred in various ways. ­­­­ The deputy minister of mineral resources and energy, Dr Nobuhle Nkabane, the Samancor Chrome head of corporate affairs and transformation, Jomo Kwadi, the general manager of Samancor Eastern Chrome Mines responsible for Doornbosch, Bertus Brink, and the Fetakgomo Tubatse Local Municipality’s executive mayor,
Cllr Eddie Maila, visited Makgemeng, where the project was successfully implemented.
Beneficiaries attested to the life-changing impact the project had on their lives, providing them with safety and convenience. “We collected firewood and could not study at night because it was dark,” “Now I also have a TV and a fridge. We don’t have to fetch wood to be able to cook our food,” and “Life was really bad before, it really improved a lot,” were just some of the comments made by beneficiaries. A critical component of Samancor Chrome’s business strategy is to invest in the development of communities within which we operate. The community of Makgemeng Village was desperately in need of electricity supply and we as a company recognised that this could be the first step towards improving the total quality of life here,” commented Desmond McManus, Samancor Chrome’s CEO. McManus said that this project is a testament to Samancor Chrome’s commitment to proudly working towards an improved, brighter future, where there is light and prosperity in the development of communities within which we operate. The community of Makgemeng Village was desperately in need of electricity supply and Samancor as a company recognised that this could be the first step towards improving the total quality of life. 