Despite a few hiccups along the way, a group of German tour operators and agents’ trip to the Lowveld went over mostly positive. The group was welcomed by the MTPA and the KMI Airport on July 3 for a familiarisation trip to Mpumalanga as part of promoting the Eurowings Discover direct flight that will be coming to the province for the first time in November. The market manager for Sense of Africa, South Africa (the destination management company), Luca Gallarate, said the group experienced some luggage problems on arrival as well as some issues with the departing flight from KMI Airport due to protests that had erupted in the area on the morning of July 6. ALSO READ: Four Kruger rhinos killed, three dehorned Gallarate said the group took the mishaps in their stride, though, and accepted them with the mindset of “things happen”. “The four-day trip afforded the agents and tour operators an opportunity to visit some of the tourism attractions in the province, including the Kruger National Park for a wildlife experience. It further afforded them the opportunity to inspect some of the variety of accommodation facilities on offer within the KNP,” a statement by the MTPA said. Gallarate said some members stayed at Kruger Shalati, some at Sabi Sabi Game Reserve and others at Lion Sands Game Reserve. He said the game viewing was fantastic and the trade fair held at Skukuza also went well. “Germany is one of Mpumalanga’s key tourist markets. By hosting these agents and tour operators, we are reaffirming our long-term relationship that will see us receiving more tourists from Germany. This direct flight from Frankfurt to the KMIA will promote the destination and increase tourist numbers to the province,” said Mduduzi Vilakazi, the acting CEO of the MTPA. ALSO READ: Pakistani man sentenced for the murder of local teacher Vilakazi said the planned trade fair on the second day of the visit would afford the Germans an opportunity to engage with various Mpumalanga tourism businesses on various packages on offer and build long-lasting relationships. Grant Ponting, the CEO of KMI Airport, said they were immensely proud to host the trade fair at Skukuza supported by the MTPA, SANParks, Skukuza Safari Lodge, Lion Sands, Sabi Sabi and Kruger Shalati. “This trade fair is a wonderful opportunity to not only showcase some of Mpumalanga and the Lowveld’s wonderful natural tourist assets, but also, more importantly, for local tourism entities, both big and small, to gain exposure to the more than 40 European-based tour operators.” Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram