It was an eye-opening session for local businesswomen as they learnt valuable information on blood donation and breast cancer during the monthly networking session of the South African Council for Business Women (SACBW) Nelspruit. Thandeka Ndlovu of the SANBS was the first speaker of the day. She shared information about donating blood. According to her, it is important for the public to be aware that apart from people involved car accidents, most of the blood donated goes to people giving birth and cancer patients. “People who are going through chemotherapy need to get blood at least four to five times a week. Imagine, if each person that has cancer in South Africa needs blood, one person needs about five people to donate for her each week.” She said some challenges lead to them not receiving enough blood.”It is currently winter, some people have flu and they cannot donate, so they need to wait for seven days. We struggle a lot. “With everything that is going on, people do not eat well because of all the frustrations due to fuel increases and people losing their jobs. Once you have a lot of stress, your body cannot produce enough blood.”
Clauddete Currie Latré and Odiella Latré Mkhwanazi of Know Your Lemons Foundation did a presentation on breast cancer. Latré encouraged women to check their breasts more regularly, and told them how to spot physical warnings. Using lemons for her illustration, she explained the changes to look for between mammograms. “There are 12 signs of breast cancer, which are: a thick area, a dimple, nipple crust, a red colour or warm feeling, new fluid, skin sores, bumps, growing veins, a sunken nipple, a new shape/size, an ‘orange peel’ skin and hard lumps.” She said there are risk factors to getting cancer. “If you had your periods before the age of 12, it will increase your risk. If you have never had children, it will increase your risk, because you did not breastfeed.”
She said if one is in doubt, they must go and see their doctor to ask them to examine their breasts.
“If you have never had a mammogram done before, go and get one – this way, they will be able to have a baseline of how your breast looks like.” ALSO READ: A venture into the hidden Spekboom Valley with Mpumalanga Heritage experiencing In the spirit of Mandela Month, the council has once again started with its Friendship in a Bag Initiative. This is where members and the public donate handbags filled with goodies and toiletries as a way to restore hope and dignity to survivors of GBV. ALSO READ: Biodiversity on Long Tom Pass is being preserved by scientists For more information, contact them on nelspruit@sacbw.org.