 There is no rain forecasted and the necessary measures have been taken to ensure that if it does rain, the festival can still go on. It is going to be epic and an outing everyone can enjoy.  Exhibitors will showcase and/or demonstrate their products and services, get a chance to interact with festival attendees and establish collaborations with other companies and individuals. Exhibits will consist of agricultural equipment, implements, crop optimisation products, machinery, etc. Local school choirs have been approached to attend and sing at our festival. Each choir will sing three songs. Elana Burger Dance School will open the stage with a ballet recital. Your kids will be safe and entertained! Jumping castles, face-painters, balloon twisters, soft play area, colouring activities, TV games area, kids’tables and chairs, and child minders to look after the little ones. Local schools and exhibitors are invited to build a citrus-coloured float to brand and market their school or company. The float parade will make its way through Mbombela, Rocky Drift and White River. It will end at Fiesta Farm’s festival grounds and will be displayed to boast each establishment throughout the festival. ClemenGold Colour Splash Fun Run – 4.9km trail run/walk. Lawrence Baird of Nelspruit Schools Shooting Academy will present pellet gun target shooting. The fun will continue with luminous targets for night shooting.  Join us and view the INEOS Grenadier on the 4×4 tracks. All festival-goers are invited to dress for the event! Mystery judges will be scanning the festival for the best-dressed orange! You can dress in any citrus colours! There will be 5x cash prizes to be won every day! Quality hand-picked stalls will display original handmade creative products. From dresses, shoes and leather products to kids’ clothing, handmade toys, skin products, home-made candy, to name a few categories. Mouth-watering food stalls and vendors will keep your tummies full and nourished! Lekker bites, like waffles, doughnuts, pancakes and more will be available.  Come and enjoy some local live entertainment and some great vibes. Local artists include: Martin Bester Band, Jimmy Stonehouse and the Airlink Pumas, The Acoustics, Sole Taxi, Moonshine, Tiffany Steyn, Dare to Believe, Debbie K and Bianca  