Three bodies that had burnt beyond recognition on Friday July 15, have still not been identified, and the police are calling on the public to assist them catching the perpetrators. A provincial police spokesperson, Colonel Donald Mdhluli, said the three bodies had been found in a car on a farm in Pienaar. The police are currently collecting DNA from those who came to claim the bodies, and are still investigating three counts of murder.  “It is the procedure we need to follow before we can release the bodies to anyone to be sure families bury the right people. However, we are appealing to the public to assist the police with information about what happened,” he said. Mdhluli said a worker had arrived at the farm at 14:00 and noticed the gate to the property was open. The farmworker had allegedly last been on the farm on Monday July 11 and had locked the gate when he left. ALSO READ: Warning: Not for sensitive viewers – Outrage as video of leopard being slapped goes viral “On closer inspection, the farmworker realised there was a car, a Hyundai i10, that was burnt out,” said Mdhluli. The worker then noticed the vehicle held burnt human remains. The man alerted the Mpumalanga police immediately, and upon their arrival, three bodies were found: one in the driver’s seat, one in the passenger’s seat and one in the boot. “The identities of the three are unknown at this stage. The circumstances surrounding this incident are being investigated by the police. The motive for the killing is also currently unknown,” said Mdhluli.  He said the police urge anyone with information to call the Crime Stop number on 08600 10111 or to send information via the My SAPS app. All received information will be treated as confidential and callers may opt to remain anonymous. ALSO READ: Driver seriously injured on R532 The provincial police commissioner, Lieutenant General Semakaleng Manamela, strongly condemned the incident and called for the swift arrest of the suspects. “This is a horrible incident. A team of experts has been assembled to investigate this case and trace the perpetrators of this heinous crime,” she said. “The perpetrators should be hunted down and brought to book.” Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram