Three alleged poachers were arrested in the Kruger National Park after allegedly killing four rhinos on Friday July 1. A provincial police spokesperson, Brigadier Selvy Mohlala, said in a statement that a tourist in the park had reported hearing gunshots on Friday. Mohlala said the information was related to field rangers and a helicopter was deployed. “As the chopper arrived, three men were spotted and captured in possession of a hunting rifle, a silencer, three knives, four mobile phones and three bags,” said Mohlala. The Skukuza police were immediately informed and the three men were arrested. ALSO READ: Suspect of robbery shot and killed allegedly by KaBokweni tavern owner Mohlala said three rhino horns were discovered at the scene, as well as four rhino carcases. The suspects had allegedly only removed the horns off three of the rhinos before they were caught. “Through preliminary investigation, it was discovered that the alleged poachers failed to remove the horn off the fourth rhino as the knife they were reportedly using was broken,” said Mohlala. He said the men were from Mozambique and in the country illegally, and therefore they will also be charged with contravention of the Immigration Act of South Africa. “As the investigation continues, the police cannot rule out the possibility of adding more charges against the suspects who are expected to appear in the Bushbuckridge Magistrate’s Court on Monday July 4,” he said. ALSO READ: Family of murdered victim welcomes conviction by Mpumalanga High Court “They are facing a charge of the possession of an unlicensed firearm with ammunition, as well as charges related to poaching and illegally entering the park.” The provincial police commissioner, Lieutenant General Semakaleng Manamela has praised the field rangers for the excellent work done to apprehend the alleged poachers. “We are adamant that the arrest will serve as a lesson to others that no one can just go to the park and hunt as they wish without any consequences. We hope the suspects will be dealt with by the court,” she said.