White River Hi-Tech started patrolling the Numbi Road to the Kruger National Park (KNP) on Friday July 1, said Linda Grimbeek, COO of the KLCBT. Grimbeek said Hi-Tech will be assisting the police to safeguard tourists using the road to visit the KNP. The private security is being funded by the Tourism Business Council of South Africa (TBCSA). It was decided to employ additional operatives after a public outcry demanding that the Numbi Gate be closed after some tourists had been attacked. “The additional security will assist in curbing tourist attacks on the road, with residents also benefiting. TBCSA has given us R100 000 to implement these measures, because it is aware that closing the gate would negatively affect the tourism industry, which is still battling to recover from the Covid-19 pandemic,” she said. Grimbeek explained that the security guards patrolling the area are not substituting the police who are working there. They will be working together to increase safety on the road. ALSO READ: 37 arrested following protest in the Lowveld “We will be working with all law enforcements responsible on that road to make sure that criminals do not take advantage of tourists. However, we are pleading with members of the community to work with all stakeholders, because community members are benefiting from tourism. They must always report all criminal activities to the police,” she asked. The chairperson of the Hazyview Chamber of Business and Tourism, Goodman Nkosi, welcomed the initiative.
“We believe that the intervention will bring hope to tour guides who were avoiding the road because they do not want to be attacked while transporting their customers. We are prepared to work with them where we can,” he said. “He also mentioned that the road also needs to be rehabilitated as criminals were waiting at the damaged areas to rob motorists,” he said. ALSO READ: Estralita Special School returns victorious from national eisteddfod Melani de Beer, who had been attacked after exiting the KNP using the Numbi Gate, said, “It is good to know that there is an attempt to make the road safe, but it will never be enough. Tourists should not be protected after they have been attacked and should not have to be vigilant every time they leave the house to go for a break or holiday. After my kids and I had been shot at without reason, we do not know if we will ever go back to the KNP or what gate to use, because every gate is a risk. We cannot accept that we will only be safe after an incident. The cameras and reaction team will only be helpful after something horrible happened and when it is too late.” The owners of White River Hi-Tech were unavailable for comment. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram