The City of Mbombela’s (CoM) mayor, Sibongile Makhushe, has released the names of those who will benefit from an indigent municipal policy. Makhushe said the policy was intended to guide the national initiative towards improving the lives of indigents and access to free basic services. “The onus for applying for the indigent subsidy rests with the consumer who cannot afford to pay full municipal tariffs for services. On the 2022 list, we prioritised families affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and all disadvantaged races. The application will remain open on the municipal website and at all our regional offices, where special staff will deal with applicants,” she said. ALSO READ: Skukuza staff member attacked by leopard Applicants must be residents of CoM and be 18 years or above. The total household joint gross income of all occupants or dependants in a single household must be less than two state pension grant incomes. The applicant must also be the owner or tenant receiving municipal services registered as an account holder on the municipal financial system. This does not apply to registered account holders of a household in informal settlements and rural areas where no accounts are rendered. The applicant must have a single property address. In terms of households headed by children, even if they are younger than 18 years of age, can apply for indigent support. All households applying for free basic electricity must have power connected to the houses. Makhuse also encouraged CoM residents who meet the criteria to visit their nearest municipal service centre and speak to the relevant official. ALSO READ: Nelspruit SPCA euthanises monkey after it gets shot Meanwhile, Ken Robertson of the FF Plus welcomed the confirmation by the Mbombela Council that the list of persons in need who rely on government aid in the City of Mbombela (Hazyview, Skukuza, White River, Mbombela and Barberton) included all races. “The foundation of the policy is designed to help households in need to obtain subsidies for service costs in order to help alleviate poverty. To date, this policy had only been applicable to previously disadvantaged persons in need. A crumbling economy does not select its victims based on race and the Covid-19 pandemic, in particular, forced people from varying financial backgrounds to their knees,” Robertson said. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram