Following an attack by a leopard on June 26, yet another employee was attacked on July 17. SANParks expressed its sympathy to an employee of the Shalati Concession in Skukuza who was attacked by a leopard en route to work on Sunday. “After fighting off the leopard and shouting for help, the animal disappeared into the surrounding bush. The injured worker was rushed to the doctor for treatment. He suffered deep lacerations and trauma, but the injuries are understood not to be life-threatening,” a statement by SANParks read. ALSO READ: Skukuza staff member attacked by leopard The park said an operation was immediately launched by the Rangers Corps and the Airwing to search the immediate vicinity for the animal. “It was spotted 30 metres from where the incident took place and was duly destroyed. This is the second one in which a worker has recently been attacked by a leopard in the Kruger.” Head ranger Cathy Dreyer said, “Since the first incident every effort had been made to try and capture the leopard, but without success. Given the location of the incident, we suspect that the destroyed leopard is the same animal responsible for the first attack, but we can never be sure. “Residents and employees must be extra vigilant and avoid walking alone at all times.” The leopard has since been delivered to the state vets to undertake a post-mortem. Jerry Mabena, the CEO of Motsamayi Tourism Group, who owns Kruger Shalati and Kruger Station, said they were shocked by this tragic incident, but were relieved that their colleague survived the ordeal. ALSO READ: Nine-year-old drowns in Skukuza pool “We, with the management team at the concession, are committed to his recovery and will support the process in both physical and emotional well-being by all means. This incident is a reminder to all that wild animals in their natural habitat act on nature’s rules. “We remain respectful to our presence in their territory, while ensuring the safety of our staff as well as the conservation we are here to protect as concessionaires. “We support the investigation by SANParks to determine the cause of this unusual behaviour by a leopard. We thank the medical support staff who acted quickly, and SANParks for their support in the incident. We wish our colleague a speedy recovery and look forward to his return to work once fully recovered.”