The Safari Country store drew large crowds to its opening event over the weekend, delivering a fun-filled and action-packed day for family and friends alike. South Africa’s largest outdoor company, Safari Outdoor opened its Nelspruit branch, Safari Country, at the Valley Hyper Centre on July 1. The brand-new store hosted a variety of exhibitors in the hunting and optics industry on both July 1 and 2 just outside the entrance, allowing potential customers to interact with different products, Safari Country staff and its suppliers. Safari Country Nelspruit is a more-than-welcome addition to Mpumalanga, known for its diverse wildlife, exquisite hiking and camping spots and, of course, the Kruger National Park. ALSO READ: City of Mbombela employees down tools With a massive range of rifles, optics, reloading equipment, bullets and all other components needed for hunting and outdoor safari activities, Safari Country Nelspruit welcomed all the region’s nature and wildlife lovers and help them with whatever they need. Lowvelders flocked to the store on both days in order to get an opportunity to be among the first people in the province to visit and buy from the store. On July 2, visitors were treated to free boerewors rolls and coffee made by some of the Safari Country staff. A beer tent housed a spectacular show with well-known singers Arno Jordaan and Leah, who performed before a very excited crowd. Safari Country is hosting a sale from July 1 to 10. In honour of the grand opening, it is also running a competition with the prize being a R82 000 Swarovski telescope. ALSO READ: Northam Booysendal launches soccer tournament People can enter a lucky draw during the week of the sale to win the telescope and other prizes. The draw will take place on July 10. Providing its customers with unique and quality products, Outdoor Safari has the following departments for Lowvelders to peruse at its brand-new store: outdoor and accessories, firearms (including investment rifles, handguns and rifles), ammunition, reloading, clothing and accessories (handbags, etc.), a deli, optics, knives, books and air rifles and accessories. The company is a pro at exceeding customer expectations in both service and product offerings and aim to give each client the best experience possible. Safari Outdoor is a business with family values, focused on humanity and integrity, and of course, a passion for the great outdoors, nature and the South African people. 