Running like a steam train. This how one can describe the arrangements at Mbombela Stadium where the Springboks and the New Zealand All Blacks will meet in a historical Castle Lager Rugby Championship match on August 6. With only around 4 000 tickets available, costing R1 000 each, Roelf Kotze, the stadium manager says supporters who want to lay their hands on one of these gems, should hurry up. “We expect that the last available tickets should be sold out by the end of next week.”  Kotze suggested that supporters should visit the ticket office at the stadium to ensure they get a ticket in hand. The gates to the stadium grounds will be opened at 10:00 on match day for early birds to enter where a feast of entertainment, a beer tent, exhibitions and food stalls will be waiting for supporters.  “The gates to the pavilions will be opened at 13:00,” said Kotze. ALSO READ: Pumas undefeated at u/18 Craven Week He warned supporters that no parking will be available inside the stadium grounds.  “The parking spaces are earmarked for only authorised vehicles such as VIPs and exhibitors.  “However, provision is made for parking outside the stadium on the two adjacent sports grounds as well as a site at the Halls Gateway and the TRAC complex.” He encouraged visitors to make use of the park-and-ride sites that will be available.  “A shuttle service has been set up from all the park-and-ride car parks to the stadium and back,” said Kotze. These parking areas will be at at Church Unlimited, Tshwane University of Technology (TUT), Laerskool Laeveld, Hoër- and Laerskool Nelspruit, Valley Hyper, Hoërskool Bergvlam, Lowveld High School, Nelspruit Primary School, Curro Academy at Riverside and The Grove shopping centre. ALSO READ: Golfing success leads to all smiles All available accommodation in the city and surrounding towns is fully booked.  Linda Grimbeek, chief operating officer of the Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism (KLCBT), encouraged residents to make private rooms available to visitors. The only condition is that these room should have en-suite bathrooms. To make accommodation available, contact Nomkhosi Tshabalala, marketing manager of KLCBT on 013 755 1988. Grimbeek says the financial benefit for the city could be better than the annual Innibos Arts Festival. She estimates the financial injection to the Lowveld’s economy could be between R100m and R150m. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram