An armed robbery at a KaBokweni tavern led to the death of one of three suspects when the tavern owner allegedly fired at the men on July 2. A provincial police spokesperson, Brigadier Selvy Mohlala, said three armed men entered a certain tavern in KaBokweni at 23:50, held the patrons at gunpoint and instructed them to lie down. It was reported that they robbed the victims of their personal belongings, including mobile phones and cash, before attempting to flee. ALSO READ: Family of murdered victim welcomes conviction by Mpumalanga High Court “It is further alleged that the tavern owner (39) became aware of what was unfolding. He drew his firearm and allegedly fatally shot one of the men. Meanwhile, the other alleged robbers were said to have fled the scene,” said Mohlala. KaBokweni police and paramedics were informed about the incident and upon their arrival, found the body of the alleged suspect with bullet wounds in his upper body as well as some of the alleged stolen cellphones belonging to the patrons. “Police are probing the incident and a robbery case has been opened with an additional probe of an inquest,” Mohlala said. ALSO READ: Thaba Moshate improves school facilities “The circumstances surrounding the shooting will also form part of the investigation. The firearm that has been reportedly used in this incident has been seized for further investigation. The deceased has not yet been identified as yet,” he said. Mohlala said the police are also still in pursuit of the remaining alleged robbers and urge anyone with information that may assist in this investigation to call the Crime Stop number on 08600 10111 or send information via the My SAPS app. “All information will be treated as confidential and callers may opt to remain anonymous,” he said. Meanwhile, the provincial police commissioner, Lieutenant General Semakaleng Manamela, has raised her concern regarding violent crimes in the province in which victims are robbed of their personal items that are then sold to others. “Members of the public should not hesitate to report such individuals who sell suspected stolen properties. People are advised not to buy such items, because by doing so, they will be helping criminals to flourish in their market, and they stand a chance of being arrested if they are found in possession of stolen items ” she said.