The Lowveld Motorcycle Safety Initiative (LMSI) is a multifaceted campaign that promotes the safety of motorcyclists in various ways. The initiative aims to make the general road user more aware of motorcycles on the road, but most importantly, to equip motorcyclists with the necessary skills to deal with everyday and life-threatening situations when riding.  On the awareness side, the LMSI team often reach out to schools where they do talks on motorcycle safety. On its website, it also added a section where motorcyclists are warned about potential road hazards in Mpumalanga. LMSI’s chairperson, Johan du Plessis, who has about 25 years’ worth of motorcycle experience under his belt, said the most important part of this initiative was the training they provide in partnership with Kishugu Training.  Kishugu provides the training grounds and LMSI provides the training instructors. ALSO READ: 37 arrested following protest in the Lowveld There are three courses to take note of, whether you are a parent considering to buy your child a motorcycle or maybe someone who just needs a refresher on how to ride your bike correctly. Firstly, there is learn to ride a motorcycle beginner training, then a back-to-basics refresher course, and finally adventure bike training. On top of all of this, motorcycle licence preparation training is also offered. To become a member of LMSI, there is a once-off joining fee of R150 and then an annual subscription of R350. You will also receive a LMSI-branded motorcycle shirt and buff as well as a gift pack. Do not think if you drive a scooter you cannot join this initiative. If you drive anything with an engine and two wheels, you are welcome. The group have casual meet-ups every Friday morning at Crossing Centre’s McDonald’s before work if you want to see what they are all about. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram