The first time Lowvelder reported on Ubuntu Wildlife Sanctuary NPC was when three local businesses hit the national radio airwaves for their involvement in this lion and tiger sanctuary in Groot Marico. André de Goede Sr of De Goede Finance Universe realised this sanctuary’s plight when he visited it in November 2019. Ubuntu was established to rescue and relocate predators from situations of distress. During De Goede’s first visit, the sanctuary was already housing various predators from Argentina, Ukraine and South Africa. A lot had been achieved, but a lot more needed to be done, with available space and security being the biggest challenges. Farmland in the Southern Cape was identified and De Goede raised the funds to purchase the land and set up camps for the predators. The total construction time was just over eight months. He also took a seat as director on the board and assisted with financial and strategic planning during a very challenging time. ALSO READ: Owner escapes from burning shack in Skhila The big date for the relocation of 14 big cats was set for May 25, 2021. The supporters of Ubuntu stepped up to the plate and some of the major contributors funding the move were from Mbombela: De Goede Finance Universe (De Goede Sr), Uniwisp (Marius Botha and Desmond Cogill) and Netbits (De Goede Jr). Massive strides were taken during this time. Covid was devastating, which presented many uncertainties for charity organisations as it had done for the rest of the country. The Lowveld supporters certainly did not take a step back. Once they were committed to the sanctuary, their involvement was priceless. De Goede Finance Universe assisted with the S18(A) registration, which meant that donors could get a proportional tax rebate. ALSO READ: Second leopard attack in Kruger, park reacts The Uniwisp team came up with the brilliant idea of a phone app, Ubuntu Wildlife Sanctuary, whereby Ubuntu supporters could view their favourite animals without being on the premises. Between Uniwisp and De Goede Finance Universe, 11 cameras with complete software and hardware were donated, and installation started in November. Certain challenges were encountered when they tried to take it global, but it was finally launched for the local market on May 11, proudly seeing the light through the dedication of Lowveld businessmen. ALSO READ: WARNING: Not for sensitive viewers – Outrage as video of leopard being slapped goes viral The management team realised that although the Covid-19 pandemic was now over, normality does not come with the flick of a switch, but is more like the rebooting of a computer. And what better way, they thought, than to bring the youth into the picture? Ubuntu Wildlife Sanctuary hosted its first survival camp for children on June 24, and it was so well received that it will now become a monthly event. Following his recent Boerboel Wear escapades, De Goede Jr, is certainly no stranger to the people of the Lowveld. He has recently decided to combine his talents and also promote Ubuntu with the Boerboel clothing range. The directors of Ubuntu appeal to Lowvelders to please continue supporting the sanctuary. Have a look at the sanctuary’s website to see what is available through its volunteering programme, or download the app on your phone to keep track of its gorgeous big cats. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram