The Powerscreen machine was officially handed over during a prestigious ceremony at the batch plant on July 12. The plant is managed and operated by the community of Pakaneng. The event was attended by the management of the mine, community members from Pakaneng, representatives from the Department of Agriculture, Land Reform and Rural Development, executive mayor of Thaba Chweu Local Municipality (TCLM), Friddah Nkadimeng, and Ward 5 councillor, Annah Rankwe. According to the management of Booysendal, the Powerscreen Warrior 1200 machine was delivered to the plant in April by the stakeholder engagement coordinator, Jack Selowa. “This equipment has been on our radar for months as the management of the plant requested it from us. We are glad to finally hand over this property to them,” said the mine’s stakeholder engagement manager, Pius Monyela. The mine’s human resource manager, Ziningi Shezi, said Booysendal honours and respects surrounding communities. “It was during a meeting in December 2021 that the community officially requested the Powerscreen. We are here today because we have kept and fulfilled our promise. “In promoting sustainable social economic growth for our community, we are proud to officially hand over this machine. The machine costs over R3.6m. This is a gift to the community and everyone who works at the plant. We wish this Powerscreen will create job opportunities for future years. This machine has to last for future generations. “The ball is in your hands to ensure this machine helps uplift the local economy and that it brings money for the Pakaneng Batch Plant. We want to see more than 100 people working here. “Booysendal loves its communities and wants development locally. We wish you all the best and believe this equipment is a huge investment.” Nkadimeng thanked Booysendal for uplifting the local communities. “We are glad to witness this handover. This equipment will reduce unemployment in and around TCLM. We are having challenges of jobs in our municipality. We like to appreciate our local mines for fighting poverty and creating jobs for the people. Nkadimeng applauded the employees at Pakaneng Batch Plant. “We are here because of your hard work and dedication. Refrain from participating in illegal protests and ensure production is increased. Protests and blockading of local roads are damaging our economy.” The mayor urged locals to participate in agricultural initiatives. “We have so much land we can use for agricultural purposes. We cannot only rely on mining as a source of employment. Let’s seek advice and start agricultural businesses.” As she concluded, Nkadimeng thanked the mine for keeping its promise of ensuring the Powerscreen is brought to the people. She urged other local mines to also give back to the local communities. Representing the Pakaneng community was Simon Mokomotwane Choma, the Communal Property Association (CPA) chairperson. He reiterated that they would take good care of the machine and ensure maximum usage, which will give opportunities to their community and the surrounding farms. “I can guarantee that there will be improvements in terms of productivity. This community will thrive and our children will get job opportunities. I wish to thank the Department of Agriculture, Land Reform and Rural Development for assisting us in land claims. Today, we are using the land for good use.” “To Booysendal, continue working with local communities to improve the well-being of residents of TCLM. We are grateful for this much-needed gift.” Selowa confirmed to the attendees that training on operating the machine was also done by the mine’s service provider. “We trained some of the employees as well as the management of the Pakaneng Batch Plant. The employees were also handed certificates to operate the Powerscreen. We trust and believe it is in good hands.” According to Selowa, the Powerscreen Warrior 1200 is the most compact 12ft scalping screen in today’s market. “Despite this footprint, with a highly aggressive screen at its heart, the Warrior 1200 is not overshadowed by its competition. Building on the success of the Warrior 600, the Warrior 1200 boasts excellent service access, high capacity and a low cost of ownership. “A multipurpose, heavy-duty, incline, two-deck screen, the Warrior 1200 is capable of stockpiling, scalping before and after crushing units, or as a standalone unit. Its highly aggressive screen can accept bofor bars, finger screens, woven mesh and punch plates, along with other application specific media types. User benefits include a rapid setup time and ease of operation aided by hydraulically folding conveyors, two speed tracks and a swift two-way split conversion,” Selowa concluded. The event was concluded with the employees showing the guests how the machine operates.