Thanks to support from the community, the Lowveld Security JOC was able to get a helicopter in the air to provide real-time updates about the protest situation in various areas of the Lowveld. Roads have once again been blocked off in various areas after protests that erupted yesterday, July 6, against fuel hikes. The situation keeps changing and seems to be escalating, but updates will be provided as and when they are received. The KLCBT is assisting from its side as well where it can. Its COO Linda Grimbeek thanked all those who are involved in assisting with the current situation. The KLCBT is attempting to get a SANDF presence on the ground, as well to assist with visibility. ALSO READ: Three alleged poachers arrested in the Kruger National Park “In the meantime we are also busy assisting people who might be caught in between protests to find alternative routes or get alternative accommodation. We appreciate information coming through. Anyone with updates can message me on 082 834 5687.” Grimbeek asked that the public not contact it to receive updates. “Everything we get we send through to the relevant authorities and media. We cannot afford to take constant calls while we are trying to solve the situation on the ground.” The JOC has been keeping the public up to date since early this morning with updates reading as follows: Lowveld Security JOC update on protests @ 10:30/11:00 Lowveld Security JOC continued to advise that caution be taken and any form of travel avoided unless absolutely critical. Multiple rumors are circulating of further unrest approaching Mbombela. Nothing can be confirmed, but escalation of unrest apparent. Most rumours are focused around 12:00 and 13:00. These are the confirmed closures: Hazyview area. N4 at KaNyamazane. N4 at Matsulu. Airport road near Luphisi turn-off. R38 between Lows Creek and Barberton. ALSO READ: Suspect of robbery shot and killed allegedly by KaBokweni tavern owner  Lowveld Security JOC update on protests @ 09:40 The JOC again advised that caution be taken and any form of travel avoided unless absolutely critical. The Hazyview area, the N4 at KaNyamazane and Matsulu, and the KMI Airport road near the Luphisi turn-off are closed.  Lowveld Security JOC update on protests @ 09:10 With the situation quickly becoming unstable on multiple routes around Mbombela, the JOC advised that caution be taken and any form of travel avoided unless absolutely critical. The Hazyview area and the N4 at KaNyamazane are closed.  Lowveld Security JOC update on protests @ 08:00 There are multiple unconfirmed reports of expected action in Mbombela. Exercise caution when moving in town. An update with verified information will be provided as soon as it becomes available. The situation further remains unchanged since the last report.  Lowveld Security JOC update on protests @ 06:50 In Hazyview’s rural area, Pienaar, KaNyamazane and Tekwane, public transport is being used to block roads. No closures in Mbombela are reported. Some outlying areas are reported closed. No closures have been reported on the main N4 as yet. ALSO READ: Family of murdered victim welcomes conviction by Mpumalanga High Court  Lowveld Security JOC update on protests @ 05:50 Public transport is not fully restored. No closures are reported in Mbombela. Some outlying areas are reported closed. There are delays on the main N4 route to Malalane due to accidents and debris. At Elandshoek, debris in the road is being cleared, so motorists can expect delays, but there are no closures reported as yet.  Lowveld Security JOC update on protests @ 04:30 The JOC reported that the protest was reactivated this morning. There are currently conflicting reports regarding public transport. No closures have been reported in Mbombela thus far. Some outlying areas are reported as closed.