Some social media outrage broke loose after a leopard had to be destroyed in the Kruger National Park this week. This follows the second attack on an employee in the park. The first incident occurred on June 26 and the second on July 17. Both employees sustained serious injuries, but not to the extent that they were life-threatening. Head ranger Cathy Dreyer said, “Since the first incident, every effort had been made to try and capture the leopard, but without success. Given the location of the incident, we suspect that the destroyed leopard was the same animal responsible for the first attack, but we can never be sure. Residents and employees must be extra vigilant and avoid walking alone at all times.” The leopard’s carcass has since been delivered to the state vet to undertake a post-mortem. The spokesperson for the park, Isaac Phaahla, said they are still awaiting the results. After the news of the attack and the destroyed leopard had reached the public, people criticised the manner in which the matter was dealt with. ALSO READ: Leopard attacks Kruger Shalati employee Phaahla said people are understandably upset, “but no one woke up that morning with the intention to destroy an animal. The incident happened and the management team dealt with the situation as best they could. These conservationists have experience in these matters and have been faced with difficult situations like the one being referred to. “Transport is now being provided and workers are constantly reminded of the dangers of walking by themselves. We are awaiting a full report from both the state veterinarian and Ranger Services to ascertain why the animal targeted humans, before we speculate.” He said there are healthy leopard populations across the park. “This is evident from the posts from tourists who have witnessed these animals in their natural habitat, so there is no truth in that they are threatened at all.” ALSO READ: Provincial MEC for human settlement dismissed fake video on social media Jerry Mabena, the CEO of Motsamayi Tourism Group, who owns Kruger Shalati and the Kruger Station, where the employee works, said they were shocked by this tragic incident, but were relieved that their colleague survived the ordeal. “We, with the management team at the concession, are committed to his recovery, and will support both his physical and emotional well-being by all means. This incident is a reminder to all that wild animals in their natural habitat act on nature’s rules. “We remain respectful to our presence in their territory, while ensuring the safety of our staff as well as the conservation we are here to protect as concessionaires. “We support the investigation by SANParks to determine the cause of this unusual behaviour by a leopard. We thank the medical support staff who acted quickly, and SANParks for its support in the incident. We wish our colleague a speedy recovery and look forward to his return to work once fully recovered.” Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram