A cash-in-transit vehicle was bombed and two of its guards disarmed in a heist that later led to a shootout between the police and suspects near Emgwenya (Waterval Boven) yesterday afternoon, May 23. According to the Mpumalanga Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation’s (Hawks) spokesperson, Capt Lucy Sekgotodi, a G4S van carrying cash was travelling on the N4 towards Mbombela from Emgwenya near the tunnel at around 17:45 when the incident occurred. She said four armed men driving a white Toyota double-cab bakkie shot at the van using high-caliber weapons and managed to force it to a stop just before the tunnel, after having punctured the right front wheel. ALSO READ: Bontle Mashiyane’s alleged killers appear in KaBokweni Magistrate’s Court “The suspects then disarmed two security guards in the cash vehicle and took their pistols,” said Sekgotodi. “The men forced the guards to lie down in nearby bushes before inserting detonators into the van, bombing the vehicle. “It is currently not known how much money was taken, as some money boxes were found at the scene as well as some cash that had been scattered on the road,” she said. ALSO READ: CoM residents owe millions for water Sekgotodi said while the suspects were busy with the heist, another cash van from SBV came upon the scene, completely unaware of the ongoing robbery. The police arrived shortly afterwards. A shootout ensued between the police, the SBV security guards and the four suspects. She said the armed suspects fled the scene on foot and it is suspected that some of them were injured during the shootout. The Nelspruit Local Criminal Record Centre, the Nelspruit Flying Squad, the bomb squad, the Emgwenya police and the Nkangala Vispol unit were all present at the scene. ALSO READ: Five remanded in custody in White River for fraud and corruption She said an AK47 assault rifle was recovered from the scene as well as a number of cartridges. No security guards or police were injured during the incident and no arrests have been made at this stage. Sekgotodi said the Hawks are investigating the matter.