The Nelspruit SPCA has officially taken over the former Barberton SPCA operational area. This means that it will render a full service in the area. This includes emergencies, cruelty complaints, routine inspections, proactive work and adoptions. The society has requested the assistance of the Barberton community. “We need support with donations as well as volunteers in the area. We will also place donation drums at the businesses where Barberton SPCA used to have them. Please support us with this. We cannot take on this large additional area without help. We also request our community to be patient with us as Barberton is a 40-kilometre drive from Mbombela. We are looking forward to serving the Barberton community and its animals. If you would like to become a volunteer, please send an email to chair@spcanelspruit.co.za.” ALSO READ: Last sad day and happy final adoptions for Barberton SPCA As the new custodians of this area, the SPCA plans an outreach to the Barberton/Umjindi area from May 16 to 20. “There are many dogs that live without shelter and proper food. There is also a problem with illegal chaining we need to address. To a lesser extent, there are also pigs and chickens in need of food and shelter. Winter is approaching and these animals need our help.” The society said donations of the following items will be of a great help: old shade nets, two-litre ice cream tubs, empty plastic pill containers, food bowls, dog food, cat food, pig food, chicken food (crushed mealies), cash donations to sponsor vaccinations and other medication, blankets and old dog beds and dog houses you do not use anymore. ALSO READ: Community shuts down Masoyi SAPS so police can search for missing girl The donations can be dropped off at the Nelspruit SPCA kennels at 6 Meidlinger Street. There are also collection drums in Barberton at Sturgeon Paints, Sumati Vet, and the old Barberton SPCA Charity Shop in Crown Street. “This is not about the location, it is about animals in need. All donations will be appreciated, no matter how small.”