The Plumbing Travelling Exhibition (PTE) is a natural follow-on from a static trade event going to the heart of the region, to enable those in the plumbing sector in the outlying areas to engage with manufacturers and suppliers of plumbing and water-related products and services.  The Institute of Plumbing SA will run workshops on the cost of business and typical geyser and drainage faults during the exhibition, with access to the exhibition and the workshops being free. Plumbing is generally referred to as the “invisible service” and comes into light when something goes wrong, like a toilet overflowing, the drain getting blocked, no hot water or that horrible smell suddenly appearing.  That simply means the plumbing was not done properly in the first place – either non-compliant products were used and/or an unqualified person claimed to be a plumber. Worse still, few people maintain the parts of plumbing that make up the whole. Called preventive maintenance, this is sadly something South Africans are not at all good at.  Those on the contracting side will appreciate the importance of regular maintenance, as plumbing constitutes a sizeable portion of the cost of the building and the development of affordable housing, especially in the Mpumalanga area, with the requirement of regular maintenance so the payback on investment is made or improved upon. One might think that maintenance is a grudge purchase, but just think about replacing a whole line of underground pipes because roots have ripped open your water supply or waste pipe.  Regular maintenance will always be less costly than replacing! So, by bringing plumbing technology to the trade in Mbombela and Mpumalanga, we are enabling and empowering plumbers to keep up with compulsory standards and the changing laws that ensure plumbing is done correctly and is an investment, not a quick fix, done by qualified plumbers and wet service engineers.  This gives the reader comfort to know that their home and the workplace are safe and kept healthy all the time and the water and waste, which can be the carriers of a number of life-threatening diseases, is kept at bay. After all, the plumber protects the health of the nation, and PTE is proud to be bringing technology to you at the expo today at Lowveld High on May 12.  