The International Talent Showcase (ITS) workshop was recently hosted in the boardroom at the prestigious Bubez Guest House.  The participants travelled from as far as Bloemfontein and Mozambique to attend. The showcase will be hosted in Tampa, Florida, USA. Aspiring dancers, singers, models and actors will have the opportunity to be scouted by some of the world’s most renowned entrainment industry specialists.  Of the 11 participants attending the 2022 convention in July this year, six were scouted at Lowvelder’s Got Talent, hosted in association with Lowveld Media. They were scouted via a live feed from the USA with the director of ITS. The Lowvelder’s Got Talent participants include Jessica Nkosi, the winner for modelling age 13 to 19, Nicky Nel, the winner for dance, Nothando Khoza, the winner for modelling age seven to 12, Elmae Ackerman, a top scorer for modelling and dance, Michelle Olckers, a top scorer for modelling, and Alberta Manjate, a top scorer for vocals, acting and modelling. ALSO READ: Paramedics hijacked outside Dullstroom, MEC condemns barbaric act The director of ITS, Sharon McCarthy, addressed the audience in the live feed and said she was extremely impressed with the quality of talent that attended the convention in the past from South Africa, and complimented the local directors of Master Models for presenting talent to be proud of. This workshop covered training in alignment with international standards to equip the participants with the skills to present themselves to international talent scouts in their respective divisions. Photoshoots were also done on-site. Candice Paterson of Master Models said, “We have a great group of participants attending the convention this July and it is a privilege to share this amazing, life-changing, educational experience with them.” Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram