Bruce MacFarlane, the current board chairperson of Uplands, passed away earlier this week. His death was announced by his wife, Dana MacFarlane, on social media. Details regarding his death were not shared. Meanwhile, the Uplands executive head, Sean Carlisle, described Bruce as a shining beacon for the entire community and his passion for the school as unparalleled. ALSO READ:Slight improvement noted in Mpumalanga dam levels “He worked untiringly to develop new strategies that have been extremely successful for the school. One of his greatest contributions included his vision to create one school at Uplands that encompasses the pre-preparatory, preparatory, college and Uplands Outreach. His dreams included the pursuit of new ideas, possibilities and striving to be one of the most eminent co-educational private day and boarding schools in Africa,” Carlisle said. Bruce was known for his progressive contemporary style and turning Uplands into a highly innovative educational facility. He invested a great deal of energy into this cause. “Bruce will leave a great void at Uplands as a highly respected individual in the Uplands community. His dynamic style and great interest in ensuring the special combination of nurturing the unique spirit of each child, while honouring the history of the school, enhancing the quality of academics and the wide range of campus activities, created a winning formula,” Carlisle said. He also said the MacFarlane magic will be celebrated by those who know and love Uplands and that Bruce will be remembered forever. “He truly embraced the phrase ‘By being today’s thinking child, they will most certainly become tomorrow’s achiever’.” ALSO READ: CoM residents owe millions for water “Together, with the wider Uplands family, I would like to extend my sincere condolences to his wife, Dana, and his two children, Rees and Gemma,” Carlisle concluded. Bruce’s memorial service will be held at Uplands in White River on May 28. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram 