The Nelspruit Regional Court convicted and sentenced Nicholas Magagula (38) to one life term and 15 years’ direct imprisonment for the murder of Liesl Nel (41). He was convicted on May 3 and sentenced on May 24. On February 17, 2018 Magagula had been working as a gardener in a house that Nel was house-sitting for a friend on the Uitkyk Road when the murder occurred. In a statement by the Mpumalanga National Prosecuting Authority’s spokesperson, Monica Nyuswa, said Magagula entered the home and strangled her, fleeing the scene with her handbag, cellphone and laptop. Magagula had also tried to drive off in Nel’s car following the murder, but was unsuccessful. ALSO READ: Skukuza Regional Court sentences poacher to nine years’ imprisonment Nyuswa said Nel was found dead in a ditch near the house the following morning. Magagula was arrested the same day at a tavern in Pienaar. In court, Magagula pleaded not guilty, but a witness who had bought the deceased’s belongings from Magagula testified that he saw the particulars of the deceased including her name when he opened the laptop. The post-mortem report also showed that the deceased’s cause of death was as a result of strangulation. The court found the evidence of the state witnesses credible and Magagula was found guilty as charged. After he was convicted, he threatened a court orderly by trying to strangle him. Magagula escaped custody while on his way to the holding cells and was rearrested a few hours later. ALSO READ: Emgwenya CIT heist leads to shootout between suspects, security and police He was sentenced to life imprisonment for premeditated murder and 15 years for robbery with aggravating circumstances. Director of Public Prosecutions in Mpumalanga Adv Nkebe Kanyane welcomed the conviction and sentence. She said it demonstrates that as an essential service, the prosecution remains operational and had doubled its efforts to ensure that gender-based violence cases are prioritised and resolved to create a safer community.