A wise and meticulous business owner once shared the following observation: “Be sure to apply the five P’s – proper planning prevents poor performance!” Everything always looks impossible until it is done. Here are some reminders to boost your confidence.  Clarity in terms of why, what and where you want it is fundamental to a successful project. Visualise the final product – smell it! Next, make the time to bounce your ideas off someone else. Be open to new suggestions, sleep on it, and do not just jump in where angels would fear to tread, because you will waste time and money. You should be flexible, though, because hiccups within the process, such as failing service providers or material availability, may well force a change of plans.  To determine the costs of your project, you need to have a design. This can be hand-drawn or architectural, with measurements that will enable you to calculate the cost of the material, labour and so forth. Request quotations from different suppliers or do the footwork yourself if you have the time. If you use architects or subcontractors, ensure that you research their credentials. Ask for testimonials and be sure to confirm these with its sources. If you use a building contractor, ensure that they are registered with the National Home Builders Registration Council.  Being an owner-builder-renovator can be wonderful, but certainly not without many challenges and lessons to be learned. For instance, using inferior material or allowing subcontractors to concoct concrete mixes or low-grade paint applications will cost you dearly. You have the numbers. You know how much paint, bricks and the rest you will require and you know what it will cost. Add another 20 or more percent to this to cover for those hidden costs (because there will be) and then decide whether you do in fact have the budget for the project. If not, recalculate, downsize or find an alternative source of money.  Ignore these at your own peril and you will shed crocodile tears when a building inspector instructs you to break down a wall or a completed building! If you extend your house beyond what your registered plan shows, selling your property may well prove impossible or seriously costly.  If you are clear about your needs, budget, time frames, and credibility of service providers, all projects should be a cinch. Visualise the result and let it be – the plan will come together…