Following the murder of six-year-old Bontle Mashiyane, the Mpumalanga MEC for community safety, security and liaison, Vusi Shongwe, has condemned the incident in which a traditional healer is alleged to have been involved. Bontle had gone missing on Saturday April 30 from the area in which she lived, Mganduzweni. However, the devastating discovery of her mutilated body was made close to her home on Friday May 20. In a statement by the department’s spokesperson, Moeti Mmusi said a sangoma (traditional healer) is alleged to have had a hand in the kidnapping and murder of Bontle. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga SAPS find dumped body of missing girl “There is a video in circulation in which a man alleges they were sent by a traditional healer who wanted female body parts to be used for traditional purposes,” said Mmusi. In the statement, Shongwe said the act is purely evil and inhumane, and should not be allowed in communities. He said traditional healers should be at the forefront in fighting gender-based violence and the killing of women, and should not be the perpetrators. “We have no place for traditional healers who rely on the death of other people in order to heal,” said Shongwe.
“In fact, those should not be regarded as traditional healers, but criminals. True traditional healers don’t hurt others to heal another.
“We cannot accept any form of criminality in the name of traditional healing. True traditional healers must expose those who are using this gift to destroy and kill others,” he said. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga SAPS arrest three suspects for kidnapping, raping and murdering Bontle Shongwe has called on community members to work hand-in-hand with the police in order to stop this evil work by criminals who hide behind the gift of traditional healing. “What has happened is heartbreaking and is a disgrace to our province. “No matter how poor you are, you must never think of hunting human beings in order to bring food to the table. Indeed, this can never be a justification for brutally killing another human being in that manner,” said Shongwe. Meanwhile, Shongwe mentioned the recent case in which Hillary Gardee (28) was abducted and murdered. He said the traditional healer who had assisted the police to arrest the suspects linked to the killing of Gardee should be commended.
“Traditional healers who help criminals are equally criminals; they should be arrested, too, and removed from our societies as they, too, encourage crime,” he said.