Sport equipment worth R1.5m donated to the University of Mpumalanga (UMP) to be used at its new Tartan track three years ago, is still in its original packaging and has not even been unpacked, let alone used. A source told Lowvelder, “I doubt if we will be able to use it, because the stadium is not being used. I was there three years ago when it was delivered. To this day the boxes haven’t been opened. It shows that they are not prepared to share the facility with the community. I was part of the deal to assist the university in securing the equipment at a reasonable price.”  ALSO READ: Field rangers remanded in custody for money laundering The source said they had requested to use the facility to practise and host school competitions, but had been denied. “I believe that the donors have wasted their money by building the Tartan track, because since its completion, no one has used the stadium. The university does not have athletes participating in the province. Now, equipment that should have been used is rusting away in a storeroom.” They said the UMP venue is state of the art, but other venues have to be used.  The president of Athletics Mpumalanga, Paul Bester, said although the facility is only three years old, it is already in such bad shape that it cannot host any games. This multimillion-rand facility was especially built so that Lowveld communities could use it.  ALSO READ: Serial murderer sentenced to fourth life imprisonment term plus 80 years for killing elderly women “However, after it was completed, no games were hosted there and the opportunity to host the Puma School of Speed Series in 2020 and South Africa Athletics and SA Multi-events Championships this year were missed. It could have put the university and Mpumalanga in the sporting spotlight. The problem is that the entire facility is becoming dilapidated as it has never been used and local athletes are not allowed to use the tartan track to practise. I still believe that the facility was not a waste of money, it just needs proper management and good maintenance.” Bester said they still wish to host events at the facility, provided it is in good condition. By the time of going to press, no comment from UMP had been received. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram