Smartwatches have been set and carbo-loading has begun in preparation for the all-new TRAC N4 Elands Marathon on Saturday May 7. Back after a 12-year hiatus, this year’s race is backed by TRAC, which manages the TRAC N4 route on which most of this Comrades qualifier will be run. The TRAC N4 Elands Marathon includes the premier 42.2km event, a half-marathon (21.1km) and a 10km run, ensuring that runners of all fitness levels and experience can participate. The 42.2km race starts at Laerskool Oosterlijn in Emgwenya (Waterval Boven). The route takes runners down the escarpment, through the Waterval Boven tunnel and ends at the Sappi Skills Training Centre in Ngodwana. The 21.1km starts at the Fortis Malaga Hotel and the 10km starts at the Sappi Skills Training Centre, where it and the 21.1km event will end. All races start at 06:00. ALSO READ: Shooting incident claims the life of Kruger field ranger Given that the marathon hasn’t been held in over a decade, TRAC and the hosts, Nedbank LVCC Running Club, are ecstatic that over 1 600 entries were received. Of these, over 1 100 runners will participate in the premier race. As the TRAC N4 Elands Marathon is a down run, a fast-winning time is expected. Given the many prominent runners competing it’s going to be exciting to see who crosses the finish line first – especially as the legendary Bruce Fordyce, who personally endorses the race, has advised competitors to: “Pace yourself because this one tricks the body and mind. Just when you think you have it in the bag, your legs start turning to jelly!” ALSO READ: Festa in Malalane a wonderful celebration of culture With the race being run mostly on the TRAC N4 route, traffic on the Elands Valley portion of the road will be affected between 05:30 and 12:00. Although the road will not be closed, traffic accommodations will be in place and only local traffic will be allowed through. All other road users will be diverted via Schoemanskloof. TRAC apologises for the inconvenience and urges road users to be patient and cautious, especially those travelling via Elands Valley during the race.