Following the death of a beloved leopard, Hosana, in the Sabi Sands Wildtuin (SSW), the reserve released another statement on May 12 regarding the incident.
Prior to this, the reserve had released two statements, on May 6 and 8 respectively. “Understandably this statement (on May 6) sparked a widespread and highly emotive reaction, and it was for this reason that we promised a subsequent analysis in order to specifically respond to the many questions and comments posed. “This in no way undermined the integrity of the original investigation conducted, which has been recorded meticulously and accepted as sound in respect of both protocols and procedure.” Many questions were raised following the statement and the reserve responded as follows: “The incident was part of the Anti-Poaching Unit’s (APU) function on the reserve. It fulfils the critical role of protecting the many vulnerable species on the reserve from poachers and is made up of teams of highly committed men and women who put their lives on the line every day to save animals from those who intentionally do them harm. ALSO READ: Provincial commissioner concerned about gender-based violence incidents “The statistics, threats, incidents and specific activities in the field of poaching/anti-poaching are never published. There is exponentially more at play here than meets the eye, and what may seem to be a very simple ‘black and white’ isolated incident is in fact a miniscule fraction of a much bigger picture. “The SSW has one of the most effective and successful anti-poaching units and security strategies on the continent. A vast number of criminals have been deterred, apprehended and imprisoned over the years, which has had an exponential ripple impact on the number of animal lives saved. The value of each member of these units to conservation is profound, and it is thanks to them that we all get to experience and connect with animals in the Sabi Sands. ALSO READ: University of Mpumalanga (ump) hold tree-planting ceremony “What happened here was an unavoidable conflict between man and wild animal in the act of conservation. Being on foot in the wilderness calls for thousands of hours’ worth of experience, skill, and rapid response. While the focus has been on a much-loved leopard, we need to maintain our line of sight on the thousands of animals in our custody on a day to day basis. “We stand behind our APU and the members of this particular cell in the actions they took in the line of duty. They bear the heaviest burden of all. “We ask for your respect and under-standing in this matter and assure you that we have communicated to the best of our ability considering both the nature of the subject matter and the function of this clandestine operative unit.” Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram