Littering has become one of the major issues within the City of Mbombela (CoM), with seemingly no effective laws to combat this.
Concerned residents are urging immediate action as environmental pollution continues unabated with bottles, plastic cans and hazardous materials strewn along the roads.
They are insisting that CoM employs additional people to clean up the city, and that those already tasked with this, increase their efforts. They say as the CoM hopes to lure new investors, the image of the city plays a decisive role in growing this former jewel of the Lowveld.
One of the residents, Michelle Stein, said blaming the municipality for not cleaning the streets is a waste of time, as residents themselves are littering and no by-laws are enforced. ALSO READ: Nkomazi Local Municipality asked to step up in Komatipoort “It must start with us, by making sure that we do not litter, using the bins on the street and making sure that when we see people littering on the streets, they are dealt with. Our municipality has failed us dismally. It’s now up to us to keep the city clean,” she said.
Meanwhile, another resident, Sello Malika, said the CoM and its Department of Environmental Affairs have all the necessary by-laws prohibiting littering, but because no one is punished, the littering continues.
“Firstly, we need a municipality that is run by people who are driven to serve the people who voted them into power. That will solve our problem. People are littering because they know that they will not be punished. The by-laws are there in black and white, but they are not enforced. So it is up to the residents to make sure that they clean up to make sure that the value of their properties increase, rather than waiting for the municipality,” he said. ALSO READ: Elephants from Mozambique roam around Nkomazi Adriaan Kruger said most of the towns in Mpumalanga, including Mbombela, are dirty. Non-profit organisations are trying their best to clean up these places, but due to limited resources, they are not winning the waste war.
“To solve all these issues, we need the visibility of law enforcement where most of the littering is taking place. Then we will have a clean city. The people receiving salaries to clean are not doing their jobs properly. The worst part of it is that even government officials responsible for cleaning the city see all the dirt, but do nothing about it,” he said.
The CoM’s spokesperson, Joseph Ngala, was unavailable for comment.
This is a developing story. Lowvelder will keep its readers updated. ALSO READ: Fines await Mpumalanga citizens with expired driver’s licences Chapter 8, Section 22 of City of Mbombela’s by-laws for littering, dumping and ancillary matters:
(1) A person may not (a) throw, drop, deposit or spill any refuse into or onto any public place, vacant stand, vacant erf, stream or watercourse; (b) sweep any refuse into a gutter on a public place; and (c) allow any person under his control to do any of the acts referred to in paragraph (a) and (b).
(2) For the purposes of this section, an occupier or owner shall be deemed to have authorised performance of the acts referred to in subsection (1) by persons operating under his control or command, unless the contrary is proved.
Chapter 8, Section 31 of City of Mbombela’s by-laws for offences and penalties
(1) Subject to the provisions of section 22, any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of these by-laws, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to a fine not exceeding R2 000 or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months, or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) In the event of a continuing offence, any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of these by-laws, shall be deemed to be guilty of a separate offence for every 24 hours or part of such period during which the offence continues, and shall be liable on conviction as set out in subsection (1) in respect of each such separate offence.