It was a night to remember as the CEO of Nkomazi Kruger Stay, Jaco van der Berg, and his production team treated the guests to an outstanding welcome. “Nkomazi with its many tourist attractions needed an opportunity to create further developments and not only focus on global tourism, but also to increase local tourism. That is what we did here today,” said Van der Berg. Important stakeholders such as the Nkomazi Local Municipality, the MTPA, the MEC for the Department of Culture, Sport and Recreation and local businessmen were thanked for their attendance. Dr Mathews Phosa gave his words of support to Van der Berg and to Nkomazi Kruger Stay, as did the acting CEO of the MTPA, Mduduzi Vilakazi, and the director of the Graskop Gorge Lift Company, Oupa Pilane. ALSO READ: WATCH: Giraffe with hole in face drinks water The main guest speaker of the night was the honourable deputy minister of tourism, Fish Mahlalela, who congratulated the Nkomazi Kruger Stay team for their excellent service and development of tourism in the country. “It was my honour to officially open Paradise Events up for business. We are proud of Jaco van der Berg for bringing a promising future to Nkomazi’s doorstep,” he said. The programme director, Bongiwe Gumbi, ensured the night ran smoothly as she introduced influential people and honoured guests to the centre. Bongi Archi provided the entertainment. This musician kept the atmosphere alive as guests enjoyed a three-course meal. The well-known retired boxing promoter, Thinus Strydom, and Van der Berg introduced new inductees to the Hall of Fame Museum at Nkomazi Kruger Lodge. ALSO READ: Fake traffic cops sought by White River police for armed robbery Nkomazi Kruger Stay and Mahlalela announced that the start of local tourism will be the next focus point of the country’s economy. “After dealing with the challenges Covid-19 has brought to the tourism industry, we realised that we should not only focus on foreign tourism, but local as well. We will initiate different rates, local and foreign, to the new tourism industry,” Mahlalela said. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram