The University of Mpumalanga (UMP) held a tree-planting ceremony at its Mbombela Campus on May 13.
The ceremony focused on the yellow-bark fever tree (acacia xanthophloea), an indigenous tree locally known as umKhanyakude, meaning “seen from afar”.The tree is endemic to the Lowveld, the Kruger National Park and northern KwaZulu-Natal.
The ceremony was attended by several dignitaries, including the UMP vice chancellor, Prof Thoko Mayekiso, the UMP council’s chairperson, Prof David Mabunda, and several UMP management members. ALSO READ: Serial murderer sentenced to fourth life imprisonment term plus 80 years for killing elderly women The UMP chancellor, Judge Mandisa Maya, asked for a bench to be placed underneath the tree.
“It is my wish to see this tree used as a gathering spot where people can sit and discuss whatever thoughts are milling in their minds. This is an umbilical cord that I hope will keep us together until the end of time,” she said. ALSO READ: Koraalboom roadworks restarted Mabunda said the university decided to plant the tree as it was very close to people’s inner beings.
“The tree is used to honour people or to show love, a globally used practice, like when Americans respect and use the redwood tree, the Europeans respect the oak tree, and Africa uses the baobab tree. In modern humanity we embrace trees and forestry as important because they help produce the oxygen we need to breathe. Soon we will be planting many more trees around campus,” he told the guests.
The dean of the faculty of agriculture and natural sciences, Prof Moses Mbewe, said the fever tree is important as its roots grow and spread to benefit the soil and fight erosion. “UmKhanyakude is an indigenous tree that grows well, is remarkable and cannot go unnoticed. It is a beautiful tree with a striking shape that forms good shade in which people can sit and relax,” he said. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram