Curro coach Karlien van Heerden recently received the exciting news that she has been selected as one of the coaches for the World Open Water Championships in Budapest in June. The enthusiastic coach said she had received the news on Friday May 6 and was in complete shock.  “It did not feel real at first. I did not see this coming and when it finally sank in, I was ecstatic. I am looking forward to this amazing opportunity given to me,” said Van Heerden. She said she started teaching children to swim in 2008 and became a coach in 2009. She has been coaching at Curro since January 2014.  Van Heerden is a lover
of water sports and said she puts her heart and soul into her work. “I love seeing how the swimmers progress and how I can assist to give them the opportunity to reach their dreams and set even higher goals,” said Van Heerden. “The best feeling is when they finally get something that I have been assisting them with, which they felt they could not do. Seeing their expression when it finally sets in and that ‘Oh wow! I am doing what Coach has been telling me I can do’ expression is priceless.” ALSO READ: Uitkyk gardener sentenced to life and 15 years in prison for strangling Liesl Nel Van Heerden said she herself had competed in the SA Biathlon Championships on several occasions and also went to the world championship in 2004. “I was a competitive swimmer myself and competed in numerous overseas competitions as well. I was also part of the Open Water Olympic training squad.”  Van Heerden said this was he first time she has been selected as a coach for an international competition. “This is really a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity and I am very grateful that I can learn from experienced coaches and broaden my horizons.” Curro has congratulated Van Heerden, saying that the whole school is was very proud of Coach Karlien. Do you have more information about the story? Please send us an email to editorial@lowvelder.co.za. For free breaking and community news, visit Lowvelder’s website: Lowvelder For more news and interesting articles, like Lowvelder on Facebook, follow us on Twitter or Instagram